Narrator: Once upon a time, in the magical land of Equestria, there were two regal sisters who ruled together, and created harmony for all the land. To do this, the eldest used her unicorn powers to raise the sun at dawn; the younger brought out the moon to begin the night. Thus, the two sisters maintained balance for their kingdom and their subjects, all the different types of ponies. But as time went on, the younger sister became resentful. The ponies relished and played in the day her elder sister brought forth, but shunned and slept through her beautiful night. One fateful day, the younger unicorn refused to lower the moon to make way for the dawn. The elder sister tried to reason with her, but the bitterness in the young one's heart had transformed her into a wicked mare of darkness: Nightmare Moon.
[lightning crack]
Narrator: She vowed that she would shroud the land in eternal night. Reluctantly, the elder sister harnessed the most powerful magic known to ponydom: the Elements of Harmony. Using the magic of the Elements of Harmony, she defeated her younger sister, and banished her permanently in the moon. The elder sister took on responsibility...
Narrator and Twilight Sparkle:...for both sun and moon...
Twilight Sparkle: ...and harmony has been maintained in Equestria for generations since. Hmm... Elements of Harmony. I know I've heard of those before... but where?

[theme song]

Twinkleshine: There you are, Twilight! Moondancer is having a little get-together in the west castle courtyard. You wanna come?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, sorry, girls... I've got a lot of studying to catch up on.
Twinkleshine: [sigh] Does that pony do anything except study? I think she's more interested in books than friends.
Twilight Sparkle: I know I've heard of the Elements of Harmony.

Spike: Ow!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Spi-ike! Spike?
Spike: [groan]
Twilight Sparkle: There you are. Quick, find me that old copy of Predictions and Prophecies. What's that for?
Spike: Well, it was a gift for Moondancer, but...
[squeak]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh Spike, you know we don't have time for that sort of thing.
Spike: But we're on a break!
Twilight Sparkle: No, no, no... no, no, no! [grunts] Spike!
Spike: It's over here!
[whack]
Twilight Sparkle: Ah! Elements, Elements, E, E, E... Aha! Elements of Harmony, see: Mare in the Moon?
Spike: Mare in the Moon? But that's just an old ponies' tale.
Twilight Sparkle: Mare, mare... aha! The Mare in the Moon, myth from olden pony times. A powerful pony who wanted to rule Equestria, defeated by the Elements of Harmony and imprisoned in the moon. Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about nighttime eternal! [gasp] Spike! Do you know what this means?
Spike: No-- whoa!
[smack]
Spike: Ow!
Twilight Sparkle: Take a note please, to the Princess.
Spike: Okie dokie.
Twilight Sparkle: My dearest teacher, my continuing studies of pony magic have led me to discover that we are on the precipice of disaster!
Spike: Hold on. Preci... preci...
Twilight Sparkle: Threshold.
Spike: Threh...
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, brink? Ugh, that something really bad is about to happen! For you see, the mythical Mare in the Moon is in fact Nightmare Moon, and she's about to return to Equestria, and bring with her eternal night! Something must be done to make sure this terrible prophecy does not come true. I await your quick response. Your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
Spike: Twilight Sparkle. Got it!
Twilight Sparkle: Great! Send it.
Spike: Now?
Twilight Sparkle: Of course!
Spike: Uh, I dunno, Twilight, Princess Celestia's a little busy getting ready for the Summer Sun Celebration. And it's like, the day after tomorrow.
Twilight Sparkle: That's just it, Spike. The day after tomorrow is the thousandth year of the Summer Sun Celebration! It's imperative that the Princess is told right away!
Spike: Impera... impera...
Twilight Sparkle: Important!
Spike: Whoa!
[crunch]
Spike: Okay, okay! [inhale] There, it's on its way. But I wouldn't hold your breath...
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, I'm not worried, Spike. The Princess trusts me completely. In all the years she's been my mentor she's never once doubted me.
Spike: [belch]
Twilight Sparkle: See? I knew she would want to take immediate action.
Spike: [clears throat] My dearest, most faithful student Twilight. You know that I value your diligence and that I trust you completely.
Twilight Sparkle: Mm-hm!
Spike: ...but you simply must stop reading those dusty old books!
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp]

Spike: My dear Twilight, there is more to a young pony's life than studying, so I'm sending you to supervise the preparations for the Summer Sun Celebration in this year's location: Ponyville. And, I have an even more essential task for you to complete: make some friends!
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]
Spike: Look on the bright side, Twilight. The Princess arranged for you to stay in a library. Doesn't that make you happy?
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, yes it does. You know why? Because I'm right! I'll check on the preparations as fast as I can, then get to the library to find some proof of Nightmare Moon's return.
Spike: Then... when will you make friends, like the Princess said?
Twilight Sparkle: She said to check on preparations. I am her student, and I'll do my royal duty, but the fate of Equestria does not rest on me making friends.
Royal guards: [whinnying]
Twilight Sparkle: Thank you, sirs.
Royal guards: [huffing]
Spike: Maybe the ponies in Ponyville have interesting things to talk about. Come on, Twilight, just try!
Twilight Sparkle: Um... hello?
Pinkie Pie: [prolonged gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: Well, that was interesting all right.
Spike: [sigh]

Spike: Summer Sun Celebration official overseer's checklist. Number one, banquet preparations: Sweet Apple Acres.
Applejack: Yeehaw!
[thump]
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] Let's get this over with... Good afternoon. My name is Twilight Sparkle--
Applejack: Well, howdy-doo, Miss Twilight, a pleasure makin' your acquaintance. I'm Applejack. We here at Sweet Apple Acres sure do like making new friends!
Twilight Sparkle: Friends? Actually, I--
Applejack: So, what can I do you for?
Spike: [snickering]
Twilight Sparkle: [clears throat] Well, I am in fact here to supervise preparations for the Summer Sun Celebration. And you're in charge of the food?
Applejack: We sure as sugar are! Would you care to sample some?
Twilight Sparkle: As long as it doesn't take too long...
[triangle ringing]
Applejack: Soup's on, everypony!
[thump]
Applejack: Now, why don't I introduce y'all to the Apple family?
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks, but I really need to hurry--
Applejack: This here's Apple Fritter. Apple Bumpkin. Red Gala. Red Delicious, Golden Delicious, Caramel Apple, Apple Strudel, Apple Tart, Baked Apples, Apple Brioche, Apple Cinnamon Crisp... [deep breath] Big McIntosh, Apple Bloom and Granny Smith. Up'n'attem, Granny Smith, we got guests.
Granny Smith: [snort] Wha..? Soup's on? I'm up, here I come, ahm comin'...
Applejack: Why, I'd say you're already part of the family!
Twilight Sparkle: [spit] [nervous laughter] Okay, well, I can see the food situation is handled, so we'll be on our way.
Apple Bloom: Aren't you gonna stay for brunch?
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry, but we have an awful lot to do...
Apple family: [disappointed sighs]
Twilight Sparkle: ...fine.
Apple family: [cheering]

Spike: Food's all taken care of, next is weather.
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh... I ate too much pie...
Spike: Hmm, there's supposed to be a Pegasus pony named Rainbow Dash clearing the clouds.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, she's not doing a very good job, is she?
[whack]
[splat]
Twilight Sparkle: Nng.
Rainbow Dash: [sheepish laughter] Uh, 'scuse me? [more sheepish laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: Nnnn.
Rainbow Dash: [laughter] Lemme help you.
[rushing water]
Rainbow Dash: [more sheepish laughter] Oops, I guess I overdid it. Um, uh, how about this? My very own patented Rain-Blow Dry! No no. Don't thank me. You're quite welcome. [bursts out laughing]
Spike: [bursts out laughing]
Twilight Sparkle: Let me guess. You're Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: The one and only. Why, you heard of me?
Twilight Sparkle: I heard you were supposed to be keeping the sky clear. [sigh] I'm Twilight Sparkle, and the Princess sent me to check on the weather.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, yeah, that'll be a snap. I'll do it in a jiffy. Just as soon as I'm done practicing.
Twilight Sparkle: Practicing for what?
Rainbow Dash: The Wonderbolts! They're gonna perform at the Celebration tomorrow, and I'm gonna show 'em my stuff!
Twilight Sparkle: The Wonderbolts?
Rainbow Dash: Yep!
Twilight Sparkle: The most talented flyers in all of Equestria?
Rainbow Dash: That's them!
Twilight Sparkle: Pfft! Please. They'd never accept a Pegasus who can't even keep the sky clear for one measly day.
Rainbow Dash: Hey, I could clear this sky in ten seconds flat.
Twilight Sparkle: Prove it.
[whooshing noises]
Rainbow Dash: [sounds of exertion] Loop the loop around, and wham! What'd I say? Ten. Seconds. Flat. I'd never leave Ponyville hanging. [sheep baaing] [chuckles] You should see the look on your face. Ha! You're a laugh, Twilight Sparkle. I can't wait to hang out some more.
Spike: Wow, she's amazing! [laughs]
Twilight Sparkle: Rrgh.
Spike: Wait! It's kinda pretty once you get used to it!

Spike: Decorations. Beautiful...
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, the decor is coming along nicely. This ought'a be quick. I'll be at the library in no time. Beautiful indeed.
Spike: Not the decor, her!
Rarity: No, no, no, oh! Goodness no.
Spike: How are my spines? Are they straight?
Twilight Sparkle: Good afternoon--
Rarity: Just a moment, please! I'm 'in the zone', as it were. Oh, yes! Sparkle always does the trick, does it not? Why, Rarity, you are a talent. Now, um, how can I help yo-- [yelp] Oh my stars, darling! Whatever happened to your coiffure?!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, you mean my mane? Well, it's a long story. I'm just here to check on the decorations, and then I'll be out of your hair!
Rarity: Out of my hair? What about your hair?!
Twilight Sparkle: Wait! Where are we going?! Help!

Rarity: No, no, uh-uh. Too green. Too yellow. Too poofy. Not poofy enough. Too frilly. Too... shiny. Now go on, my dear. You were telling me where you're from.
Twilight Sparkle: [wincing] I've... been sent... from Canterlot... to--
Rarity: Huh?
[crash]
Rarity: Canterlot?! Oh, I am so envious! The glamor, the sophistication! I have always dreamed of living there! I can't wait to hear all about it! We are gonna be the best of friends, you and I... Emeralds?! What was I thinking? Let me get you some rubies!
Twilight Sparkle: Quick! Before she decides to dye my coat a new color!
Spike: [sigh]

Spike: Wasn't she wonderful?
Twilight Sparkle: Focus, Casanova. What's next on the list?
Spike: [clears throat] Oh, uh, music! It's the last one!
[distant birdsong fanfare]
Fluttershy: Oh my. Um, stop please, everyone, umm. Excuse me, sir? I mean, no offense, but your rhythm is just a teeny-tiny bit off. Now, follow me, please. A-one, a-two, a-one two three-
Twilight Sparkle: Hello!
Fluttershy: [yelp]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my, I'm so sorry, I didn't mean to frighten your birds. I'm just here to check up on the music and it's sounding beautiful. [pause] I'm Twilight Sparkle. [pause] What's your name?
Fluttershy: [very quietly] Um... I'm Fluttershy.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sorry, what was that?
Fluttershy: [even quieter] Um... My name is Fluttershy.
Twilight Sparkle: Didn't quite catch that.
Fluttershy: [squeaking]
Twilight Sparkle: [pause] Well, um, it looks like your birds are back, so I guess everything's in order. Keep up the good work!
Fluttershy: [squeaking]
Twilight Sparkle: Oookay. [to Spike] Well, that was easy.
Fluttershy: [gasp] A baby dragon!
[thump]
Fluttershy: Oh, I've never seen a baby dragon before. He's sooo cute!
Spike: Well, well, well...!
Fluttershy: Oh my, he talks. I didn't know dragons could talk. That's just so incredibly wonderful I, I just don't even know what to say!
Twilight Sparkle: Well, in that case we'd better be going.
Fluttershy: Wait, wait! What's his name?
Spike: I'm Spike.
Fluttershy: Hi Spike, I'm Fluttershy. Wow, a talking dragon! And what do dragons talk about?
Spike: Well, what do you wanna know?
Fluttershy: Absolutely everything.
Twilight Sparkle: [groan]
Spike: Well... I started out as a cute little purple and green egg...

Spike: ...and that's the story of my whole entire life! Well, up until today. Do you wanna hear about today?
Fluttershy: Oh, yes, please!
Spike: Gyah!
Twilight Sparkle: I am so sorry, how did we get here so fast? This is where I'm staying while in Ponyville and my poor baby dragon needs his sleep.
Spike: No I don't-- whoa!
Twilight Sparkle: Aww, wook at dat, he's so sweepy he can't even keep his widdle bawance!
Fluttershy: Poor thing, you simply must get into bed...
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, yes, we'll get right on that. Well, g'night!
[door slamming]
Spike: Huh. Rude much?
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry, Spike, but I have to convince the Princess that Nightmare Moon is coming, and we're running out of time! I just need to be alone so I can study without a bunch of crazy ponies trying to make friends all the time. Now, where's the light?
[light flicks on]
Twilight Sparkle and Spike: [honk]
Ponies: Surprise!
[kazoo blows]
Twilight Sparkle: [groan]
[music warps down]

Pinkie Pie: Surprise!
[party whistle blows]
Pinkie Pie: Hi, I'm Pinkie Pie, and I threw this party just for you! Were you surprised? Were ya? Were ya? Huh huh huh?
Twilight Sparkle: Very surprised. Libraries are supposed to be quiet.
Pinkie Pie: Well, that's silly! What kind of welcome party would this be if it were quiet? I mean, duh, bo-ring! Y'see, I saw you when you first got here, remember? You were all "hello" and I was all [deep gasp], remember? Y'see I've never saw you before and if I've never saw you before that means you're new, 'cause I know everypony, and I mean everypony in Ponyville!
Twilight Sparkle: [groan]
Pinkie Pie: And if you're new, that meant you haven't met anyone yet, and if you haven't met anyone yet, you must not have any friends, and if you don't have any friends then you must be lonely, and that made me so sad, then I had an idea, and that's why I went [deep gasp]! I must throw a great big ginormous super-duper spectacular welcome party and invite everyone in Ponyville! See? And now you have lots and lots of friends!
[kettle whistling]
Applejack: Are you all right, sugarcube?
[train whistle blowing]
Pinkie Pie: Aww, she's so happy she's crying!
Spike: "Hot sauce". Ooh...
Pinkie Pie: [with mouth full] What? It's good!

[muffled disco music]
[clock ticking]
Twilight Sparkle: [groan]
[door opens, music gets louder]
Spike: Hey Twilight! Pinkie Pie's starting "pin the tail on the pony"! Wanna play?
Twilight Sparkle: No! All the ponies in this town are crazy! Do you know what time it is?!
Spike: It's the eve of the Summer Sun Celebration. Everypony has to stay up, or they'll miss the Princess raise the sun! You really should lighten up, Twilight. It's a party!
Twilight Sparkle: [mockingly imitates Spike]
[door closes, music stops]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, here I thought I'd have time to learn about the Elements of Harmony but, silly me, all this ridiculous friend-making has kept me from it! "Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about everlasting night." I hope the Princess was right... I hope it really is just an old ponytale...
Spike: C'mon, Twilight, it's time to watch the sunrise!

Pinkie Pie: Isn't this exciting? Are you excited, 'cause I'm excited, I've never been so excited-- well, except for the time that I saw you walking into town and I went [deep gasp] but I mean really, who can top that?
[fanfare]
Mayor Mare: Fillies and gentlecolts, as mayor of Ponyville, it is my great pleasure to announce the beginning of the Summer Sun Celebration!
[ponies cheering]
Mayor Mare: In just a few moments, our town will witness the magic of the sunrise, and celebrate this, the longest day of the year! And now, it is my great honor to introduce to you the ruler of our land, the very pony who gives us the sun and the moon each and every day, the good, the wise, the bringer of harmony to all of Equestria...
Fluttershy: Ready?
Mayor Mare: ...Princess Celestia!
Rarity: Huh?
[ponies chattering quietly and nervously in the background]
Twilight Sparkle: This can't be good.
Mayor Mare: Remain calm, everypony, there must be a reasonable explanation!
Pinkie Pie: Ooh, ooh, I love guessing games! Is she hiding?
Rarity: She's gone!
[ponies gasping]
Pinkie Pie: Ooh, she's good. [yelp]
[ponies gasping]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no... Nightmare Moon!
Spike: [sigh]
Nightmare Moon: Oh, my beloved subjects. It's been so long since I've seen your precious, little sun-loving faces.
Rainbow Dash: What did you do with our Princess?!
Applejack: [muffled] Whoa there, Nelly...
Nightmare Moon: [chuckle] Why, am I not royal enough for you? Don't you know who I am?
Pinkie Pie: Ooh, ooh, more guessing games! Um, Hokey Smokes! How about... Queen Meanie! No! Black Snooty, Black Snooty--[muffled noises]
Nightmare Moon: Does my crown no longer count now that I have been imprisoned for a thousand years? Did you not recall the legend? Did you not see the signs?
Twilight Sparkle: I did. And I know who you are. You're the Mare in the Moon – Nightmare Moon!
[ponies gasping]
Nightmare Moon: Well well well, somepony who remembers me. Then you also know why I'm here.
Twilight Sparkle: You're here to... to... [gulp]
Nightmare Moon: [chuckle] Remember this day, little ponies, for it was your last. From this moment forth, the night will last forever! [laughter, thunder]
[To be continued...]

[music]
[credits]

[Previously on My Little Pony]

Twilight Sparkle: "Elements of Harmony, see "Mare in the Moon"?
Spike: But that's just an old ponies' tale.

Twilight Sparkle: She will bring about nighttime eternal.

Twilight Sparkle: It's imperative that the princess is told right away.

Twilight Sparkle: See? I knew she would wanna take immediate action.

Spike: My Dear Twilight. There is more to a young pony's life than studying. Make some friends.

Pinkie Pie: [gasp]

Twilight Sparkle: All the ponies in this town are crazy!

Twilight Sparkle: I hope the Princess was right.

Rarity: She's gone.

Twilight Sparkle: Oh no. Nightmare Moon!

Nightmare Moon: [evil laugh]

[theme song]

Nightmare Moon: [evil laughs]
Mayor Mare: Seize her! Only she knows where the Princess is!
Nightmare Moon: Stand back, you foals! [laughs]
[screaming]
Applejack: Ergh...
Rainbow Dash: Come back here! [pants] Nighttime? Forever? Where's she going?

Spike: Uh... We gotta stop Nightmare!...
Twilight Sparkle: You've been up all night, Spike. You are a baby dragon after all. Elements, elements, elements... Ugh! How can I stop Nightmare Moon without the Elements of Harmony?
Rainbow Dash: And just what are the Elements of Harmony? And how did you know about Nightmare Moon, huh? Are you a spy? Whoa!
Applejack: Simmer down, Sally. She ain't no spy. But she sure knows what's going on. Don't you, Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: I read all about the prediction of Nightmare Moon. Some mysterious objects called the Elements of Harmony are the only things that can stop her, but I don't know what they are, where to find them; I don't even know what they do!
Pinkie Pie: "The Elements of Harmony: A Reference Guide."
Twilight Sparkle: How did you find that?!
Pinkie Pie: [sing-song voice] It was under "E"!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh. There are six Elements of Harmony, but only five are known: Kindness, Laughter, Generosity, Honesty and Loyalty. The sixth is a complete mystery. It is said, the last known location of the five elements was in the ancient castle of the royal pony sisters. It is located in what is now--

Everypony: The Everfree Forest!
[spooky music]
Pinkie Pie: Whee! Let's go!
Twilight Sparkle: Not so fast. Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather do this on my own.
Applejack: No can do, sugarcube. We sure ain't lettin' any friend of ours go into that creepy place alone. We're stickin' to you like caramel on a candy apple.
Everypony: [agreed hmph]
Pinkie Pie: Especially if there's candy apples in there. What? Those things are good.
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]

Twilight Sparkle: So, none of you have been in here before?
Rarity: Ugh, Heavens no! Just look at it - it's dreadful.
Applejack: And it ain't natural. Folk say it don't work the same as Equestria.
Twilight Sparkle: What's that supposed to mean?
Rainbow Dash: Nopony knows. You know why?
Applejack: Rainbow, quit it.
Rainbow Dash: 'cause every pony who's ever come in, has never come out!
[crash]
[scream]
Rainbow Dash: Fluttershy! Quick!
Fluttershy: Oh my goodness, oh my goodness.
Rarity: [screams]
Twilight Sparkle: [screams]
Applejack: Hold on! I'm a-comin'!
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack! What do I do?
Applejack: Let go.
Twilight Sparkle: Are you crazy?
Applejack: No I ain't. I promise you'll be safe.
Twilight Sparkle: That's not true!
Applejack: Now listen here. What I'm sayin' to you is the honest truth. Let go, and you'll be safe.
Twilight Sparkle: Yaaah! Phew-wah!
Fluttershy: Sorry girls. I'm not used to holding anything more than a bunny or two.
[animal roar]

Rainbow Dash: And once Pinkie and Rarity were saved, whoosh... Me and Fluttershy loop-de-loop around and WHAM! Caught you right in the nick of time.
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, Rainbow, I was there, and I'm very grateful, but we gotta- [gasp] A manticore!
Manny Roar: [roar]
Twilight Sparkle: We've gotta get past him!
Rarity: Take that, you ruffian!
Manny Roar: [roar]
Rarity: My hair! Woop--
Fluttershy: Wait.
Manny Roar: [roar]
Applejack: YEE-HAW! Git along, little dogie.
Fluttershy: Wait.
Manny Roar: [roars]
Applejack: Whoa! All yours, partner.
Rainbow Dash: I'm on it.
Fluttershy: Wait!
Manny Roar: [roars]
Rainbow Dash: [screams]
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow!
Manny Roar: [grunt]
Twilight Sparkle: [snorts]
Fluttershy: WAIT!
Manny Roar: [roar]
Fluttershy: Shhh... It's okay. Oh, you poor, poor little baby.
Rainbow Dash: Little?
Fluttershy: Now this might hurt for just a second.
Manny Roar: [roar]
Everypony: Fluttershy!
Manny Roar: [purrs]
Fluttershy: [giggles] Aw you're just a little ol' baby kitty, aren't you? Yes you are, yes you are.
Twilight Sparkle: How did you know about the thorn?
Fluttershy: I didn't. Sometimes we all just need to be shown a little kindness.

Rarity: No. My eyes need a rest from all this icky muck. Well, I didn't mean that literally.
Twilight Sparkle: That ancient ruin could be right in front of our faces and we wouldn't even know it.
Rarity: I didn't see you there, my apologies.
Rainbow Dash: Right here... guh...
Applejack: Oh wait, I think I stepped in somethin'.
Fluttershy: [scream]
Applejack: It's just mud.
[tree growls]
Applejack: Aah!
[trees growling]
[screams]

[screams]
Pinkie Pie: [laughter]
Everypony: Huh?
Pinkie Pie: [laughter] Bleh. Ooo! [funny noises] [laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie, what are you doing?! Run!
Pinkie Pie: Oh girls, don't you see?

[Pinkie Pie]
When I was a little filly and the sun was going down...


Twilight Sparkle: Tell me she's not...

[Pinkie Pie]
The darkness and the shadows, they would always make me frown...


Rarity: She is.

[Pinkie Pie]
I'd hide under my pillow
From what I thought I saw
But Granny Pie said that wasn't the way
To deal with fears at all


Rainbow Dash: Then what is?

[Pinkie Pie]
She said: "Pinkie, you gotta stand up tall
Learn to face your fears
You'll see that they can't hurt you
Just laugh to make them disappear."


Ha! Ha! Ha!


Ponies: [gasp]

[Pinkie Pie]
So, giggle at the ghostly
Guffaw at the grossly
Crack up at the creepy
Whoop it up with the weepy
Chortle at the kooky
Snortle at the spooky


And tell that big dumb scary face to take a hike and leave you alone and if he thinks he can scare you then he's got another thing coming and the very idea of such a thing just makes you wanna... hahahaha... heh...


Laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaauuugh!


[laughs]
Pinkie Pie: How are we gonna cross this?
[distant cry]
Pinkie Pie: Huh?
Steven Magnet: [sobbing] What a world, what a world.
Twilight Sparkle: Excuse me, sir. Why are you crying?
Steven Magnet: Well, I don't know. I was just sitting here, minding my own business, when this tacky little cloud of purple smoke just whisked past me and tore half of my beloved mustache clean off, and now I look simply horrid. [wails]
Rainbow Dash: Oh, give me a break.
Applejack: That's what all the fuss is about?
Rarity: Why, of course it is. How can you be so insensitive? Oh, just look at him. Such lovely luminescent scales.
Steven Magnet: [sniffs] I know.
Rarity: And your expertly coiffed mane.
Steven Magnet: Oh, I know, I know.
Rarity: Your fabulous manicure.
Steven Magnet: [gasp] It's so true!
Rarity: All ruined without your beautiful mustache.
Steven Magnet: It's true, I'm hideous!
Rarity: I simply cannot let such a crime against fabulosity go uncorrected.
Steven Magnet: [yelp] What did you do that for?
Twilight Sparkle: Rarity, what are you-
Steven Magnet: [moans] Oh-hohohoho! My mustache. How wonderful.
Rarity: You look smashing.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Rarity, your beautiful tail...
Rarity: Oh. It's fine, my dear. Short tails are in this season. Besides, it'll grow back.
Rainbow Dash: So would the mustache.
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] We can cross now. Let's go. Ah!
Steven Magnet: Allow me.

Twilight Sparkle: There it is, the ruin that holds The Elements of Harmony. We made it!
Applejack: Twilight, wait for us!
Twilight Sparkle: We're almost there. Whoa!
Rainbow Dash: What's with you and falling off cliffs today?
Pinkie Pie: [sighs] Now what?
Rainbow Dash: Duh.
Pinkie Pie: Oh yeah.
Shadowbolt Leader: Rainbow...
Rainbow Dash: Who's there?
Shadowbolt Leader: Rainbow...
Rainbow Dash: I ain't scared of you! Show yourself!
Shadowbolt Leader: We've been eagerly awaiting the arrival of the best flyer in Equestria.
Rainbow Dash: Who?
Shadowbolt Leader: Why, you, of course.
Rainbow Dash: Really?! I mean... Oh yeah, me. Hey, uh, you wouldn't mind telling the Wonderbolts that, would ya? 'cause I've been trying to get into that group for like, ever.
Shadowbolt Leader: No, Rainbow Dash. We want you to join us, The Shadowbolts. We're the greatest aerial team in the Everfree Forest, and soon we will be the greatest in all Equestria, but first, we need a captain. The most magnificent-
Rainbow Dash: Yep.
Shadowbolt Leader: Swiftest-
Rainbow Dash: Yes.
Shadowbolt Leader: Bravest flyer in all the land.
Rainbow Dash: Yes, [chuckle] it's all true.
Shadowbolt Leader: We need... you.
Rainbow Dash: WOOHOO! Sign me up. Just let me tie this bridge real quick and then we have a deal.
Shadowbolt Leader: No! It's them or us.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow, what's taking so long? Oh no. Rainbow! Don't listen to them.
Shadowbolt Leader: Well?
Rainbow Dash: You... Thank you! For the offer, I mean, but I'm afraid I have to say no.
[ponies cheering]
Rainbow Dash: See? I'd never leave my friends hangin'.

Applejack: Whoa. Come on, Twilight. Isn't this what you've been waitin' for?
Twilight Sparkle: The Elements of Harmony, we've found them. Careful, careful!
Pinkie Pie: One, two, three, four... There's only five!
Rainbow Dash: Where's the sixth?
Twilight Sparkle: The book said: when the five are present, a spark will cause the sixth Element to be revealed.
Applejack: What in the hay is that supposed to mean?
Twilight Sparkle: I'm not sure, but I have an idea. Stand back. I don't know what will happen.
Applejack: Come on now, y'all. She needs to concentrate.
Twilight Sparkle: Aah!
Everypony: Twilight!
Twilight Sparkle: The Elements!
[All five ponies talking over each other: Fluttershy: Twilight? Applejack: What? Rarity: Where did she go? Pinkie Pie: What happened? Rainbow Dash: What's going on?]

Applejack: Twilight, where are you?
Rarity: Look!
Applejack: Come on!
Twilight Sparkle: [coughs, gasps]
Nightmare Moon: [evil laugh]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Hmph!
Nightmare Moon: You're kidding. You're kidding, right?
Twilight Sparkle: [groan] Just one spark. Come on, come on. Aah!
Nightmare Moon: No, no!
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] But... where's the sixth Element?!
Nightmare Moon: [laughter] You little foal! Thinking you could defeat me? Now you will never see your princess, or your sun! The night will last forever! [evil laugh]
[All five ponies talking over each other: Pinkie Pie: Don't worry Twilight, we're here. Applejack: Don't worry, we'll be there.]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] You think you can destroy The Elements of Harmony just like that? Well, you're wrong, because the spirits of The Elements of Harmony are right here.
Nightmare Moon: What?
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack, who reassured me when I was in doubt, represents the spirit of... honesty!
Twilight Sparkle: Fluttershy, who tamed the manticore with her compassion, represents the spirit of... kindness!
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie Pie, who banished fear by giggling in the face of danger, represents the spirit of... laughter!
Twilight Sparkle: Rarity, who calmed a sorrowful serpent with a meaningful gift represents the spirit of... generosity!
Twilight Sparkle: And Rainbow Dash, who could not abandon her friends for her own heart's desire represents the spirit of... loyalty!
Twilight Sparkle: The spirits of these five ponies got us through every challenge you threw at us.
Nightmare Moon: You still don't have the sixth Element! The spark didn't work!
Twilight Sparkle: But it did! A different kind of spark. I felt it the very moment I realized how happy I was to hear you, to see you, how much I cared about you. The spark ignited inside me when I realized that you all... are my friends! You see, Nightmare Moon, when those Elements are ignited by the... the spark, that resides in the heart of us all, it creates the sixth element: the element of... magic!
Nightmare Moon: Nooo! Nooo!

Rainbow Dash: Ugh, my head.
Applejack: Everypony okay?
Rarity: Oh, thank goodness.
Fluttershy: Why Rarity, it's so lovely.
Rarity: I know! I'll never part with it again.
Fluttershy: No. Your necklace. It looks just like your cutie mark.
Rarity: What? Ooh. So does yours.
Fluttershy: [gasp]
Pinkie Pie: Look at mine! Look at mine!
Rainbow Dash: Aw yeah.
Applejack: Gee, Twilight! I thought you were just spoutin' a lot of hooey, but I reckon we really do represent the elements of friendship.
Princess Celestia: Indeed you do.
Twilight Sparkle: [gasps] Princess Celestia.
Princess Celestia: Twilight Sparkle, my faithful student. I knew you could do it.
Twilight Sparkle: But... you told me it was all an old pony tale.
Princess Celestia: I told you that you needed to make some friends, nothing more. I saw the signs of Nightmare Moon's return and I knew it was you who had the magic inside to defeat her, but you could not unleash it until you let true friendship into your heart. Now if only another will as well. Princess Luna!
Princess Luna: [gasp]
Princess Celestia: It has been a thousand years since I have seen you like this. Time to put our differences behind us. We were meant to rule together, little sister.
Everypony: Sister?
Princess Celestia: Will you accept my friendship?
Pinkie Pie: Whoa!
Princess Luna: I'm so sorry! I missed you so much, big sister!
Princess Celestia: I've missed you, too.
Pinkie Pie: [blows her nose] [sobs] Hey, you know what this calls for?

Pinkie Pie: A party!
[music and cheering ponies]
Princess Celestia: Why so glum, my faithful student? Are you not happy that your quest is complete and you can return to your studies in Canterlot?
Twilight Sparkle: That's just it. Just when I learned how wonderful it is to have friends, I have to leave them.
Princess Celestia: Spike, take a note, please. I, Princess Celestia, hereby decree that the unicorn Twilight Sparkle shall take on a new mission for Equestria. She must continue to study the magic of friendship. She must report to me her findings from her new home in Ponyville.
[ponies cheer]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh thank you, Princess Celestia! I'll study harder than ever before.
[ponies cheer]

Pinkie Pie: Isn't this exciting? Are you excited cause I'm excited I've never been so excited, well, except for the time that I went [gasp] but I mean really-

[music]
[credits]

Spike: No. Nope. Nope--
Applejack: Thank you kindly, Twilight, for helping me out. I bet Big McIntosh I could get all these Golden Delicious in the barn by lunchtime. If I win, he's gonna walk down Stirrup Street in one of granny's girdles. [chuckles]
Twilight Sparkle: No problem at all, Applejack. I'm glad the goal is lunchtime. All this hard work is making me hungry.
Spike: I know, right?
Twilight Sparkle: Puh-leez, Spike, you've been lounging on my back all morning while we worked.
Spike: Exactly. You two are taking so long, I missed snack-time.
Twilight Sparkle: [stomach grumbles] [laughs nervously] Eh, I guess we better get some food.
Spike: Nope. Worm. A-ha!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh Spike, that looks delicious. 
Spike: [munching]
Twilight Sparkle: Spike.
Spike: What? [burp]
Twilight Sparkle: It's a letter from Princess Celestia.
Spike: [clears throat] Hear ye, hear ye. Her Grand Royal Highness, Princess Celestia of Equestria, is pleased to announce The Grand Galloping Gala to be held in the magnificent capital city of Canterlot, on the 21st day of, eh, yadda yadda yadda, cordially extends an invitation to Twilight Sparkle plus one guest.
Applejack and Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] The Grand Galloping Gala!

[theme song]

Applejack and Twilight Sparkle: The Grand Galloping Gala! [cheering]
Applejack: Woo-hoo!
Spike: [burp] Look, two tickets.
Twilight Sparkle: Wow, great! I've never been to the gala. Have you, Spike?
Spike: No, and I plan to keep it that way. I don't want any of that girly frilly frou-frou nonsense.
Twilight Sparkle: Aw, come on Spike. A dance would be nice.
Applejack: Nice? It's a heap good more than just nice. I'd love to go. Land sakes, if I had an apple stand set up, ponies would be chowin' our tasty vittles till the cows came home. Do you have any idea how much business I could drum up for Sweet Apple Acres? Why, with all that money, we could do a heap of fixin' up 'round here. We could replace that saggy old roof, and Big McIntosh could replace that saggy old plow, and Granny Smith could replace that saggy old hip.

Applejack: Why, I'd give my left hind leg to go to that gala.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, well in that case, would you like to--
Rainbow Dash: Whoa! [crash] Ugh. Are we talking about The Grand Galloping Gala?
Applejack: Rainbow Dash, you told me you were too busy to help me harvest apples. What were you busy doing, spyin'?
Rainbow Dash: No, I was busy napping, and I just happened to hear that you have an extra ticket?
Twilight Sparkle: Yeah, but--
Rainbow Dash: YES! This is so awesome. The Wonderbolts perform at The Grand Galloping Gala every year. I can see it now. Everyone would be watching the sky. Their eyes riveted on The Wonderbolts, but then in would fly Rainbow Dash!
[audience gasps]
Rainbow Dash: I would draw their attention with my Super Speed Strut.
[audience cheers]
Rainbow Dash: Then, I would mesmerize 'em with my Fantastic Filly Flash. And for my grand finale, The Buccaneer Blaze! The ponies would go wild!
[ponies go wild]
Rainbow Dash: The Wonderbolts would insist that my signature moves be incorporated into their routine, and then welcome me as their newest member.

Rainbow Dash: Don't you see, Twilight? This could be my one chance to show 'em my stuff. You gotta take me! [grunt]
Applejack: Hold on just one pony pickin' minute here. [spit] I asked for that ticket first.
Rainbow Dash: So? That doesn't mean you own it.
Applejack: Oh, yeah? Well I challenge you to a hoof-wrestle. Winner gets the ticket. [groan]
Rainbow Dash: [groan]
Twilight Sparkle: Girls, these are my tickets, I'll decide who gets it, thank you very much. Whoever has the best reason to go should get the ticket, don't you think?
Applejack: Drummin' up business for the farm?
Rainbow Dash: A chance to audition for The Wonderbolts?
Applejack: Money t' fix granny's hip.
Rainbow Dash: Living the dream.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my, those were all pretty good reasons, aren't they? [stomach rumbles] [chuckles] Listen to that, I am starving. I don't know about you, but I can't make important decisions on an empty stomach, so I'll, uh, think about it over lunch and get back to you two, okay?
Applejack and Rainbow Dash: Okay.
Applejack and Rainbow Dash: [groan]

Spike: So, who you gonna give the ticket to, Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: I don't know Spike, but I really can't think straight when I'm hungry, so where should we eat?
Pinkie Pie: [crash] Gah! Bats! Bats on my face! Help! Wait, these aren't... tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala?! It's the most amazing incredible tremendous super-fun wonderful terrifically humongous party in all of Equestria! I've always always always wanted to go!

[Pinkie Pie]
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me
Hip hip
Hooray!
It's the best place for me
For Pinkie...


Pinkie Pie: With decorations like streamers and fairy-lights and pinwheels and piñatas and pin-cushions. With goodies like sugar cubes and sugar canes and sundaes and sun-beams and sarsaparilla. And I get to play my favorite-est of favorite fantabulous games like Pin the Tail on the Pony!

[Pinkie Pie]
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me
'Cause it's the most galarrific superly-terrific gala ever
In the whole galaxy
Wheee!!

Pinkie Pie: Oh thank you, Twilight, it's the most wonderful-est gift ever.
Twilight Sparkle: Um, actually--
Rarity: [gasp] Are these what I think they are?
Twilight Sparkle: Uh--
Pinkie Pie: Yes, yes, yes! Twilight's taking me to The Grand Galloping Gala in Canterlot.
Rarity: The gala? I design ensembles for the gala every year, but I've never had the opportunity to attend. Oh, the society, the culture, the glamour! It's where I truly belong, and where I'm destined to meet him.
Pinkie Pie: Him! ...Who?
Rarity: Him. I would stroll through the gala, and everyone would wonder, "Who is that mysterious mare?" They would never guess that I was just a simple pony from little old Ponyville. Why, I would cause such a sensation that I would be invited for an audience with Princess Celestia herself, and the princess would be so taken with the style and elegance that she would introduce me to him, her nephew: the most handsome, eligible unicorn stallion in Canterlot. Our eyes would meet, our hearts would melt. Our courtship would be magnificent. He would ask for my hoof in marriage, and of course I would say, "Yes!" We would have a royal wedding, befitting a princess, which is [giggles] what I would become upon marrying him, the stallion of my dreams.

Rarity: Twilight, I simply cannot believe you would invite Pinkie Pie so she can... party, and prevent me from meeting my true love. How could you? Hmph.
Spike: Hey!
Fluttershy: [gasp] Angel, these are perfect.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, listen guys, I haven't decided who to give the extra ticket to.
Rarity and Pinkie Pie: You haven't?
Fluttershy: Um, excuse me, Twilight. I would just like to ask, I mean, if it would be all right, if you haven't given it to someone else--
Rarity: You? You want to go to the gala?
Fluttershy: Oh, no. I mean, yes, or, actually, kind of. You see, it's not so much The Grand Galloping Gala as it is the wondrous private gated garden that surrounds the dance. The flowers are said to be the most beautiful and fragrant in all of Equestria. For the night of the gala, and that night alone, would they all be in bloom... and that's just the flora! Don't get me started on the fauna. There's loons and toucans and bitterns, oh my! Hummingbirds that can really hum, and buzzards that can really buzz. White-blue jays, and red jays, and green jays, pink jays and pink flamingos!

Twilight Sparkle: Gee, Fluttershy, it sounds... beautiful?
Rainbow Dash: Wait just a minute.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash, were you following me?
Rainbow Dash: No. I mean, yes. I mean, maybe. Look, it doesn't matter. I couldn't risk a goody-four-shoes like you giving that ticket away to just anybody.
Applejack: Wait just another minute.
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack, were you following me too?
Applejack: No. I was followin' this one to make sure she didn't try any funny business. Still trying to take mah ticket.
Rainbow Dash: Your ticket?
Pinkie Pie: But Twilight's taking me.
[ponies argue]

[ponies argue]
Twilight Sparkle: QUIET!
Pinkie Pie: And then I said, "Oatmeal, are you craz--" oh.
Twilight Sparkle: Girls, there's no use in arguing.
Rarity: But Twilight-
Twilight Sparkle: Eh! This is my decision, and I'm gonna make it on my own, and I certainly can't think straight with all this noise... [stomach rumbles] not to mention hunger. Now go on, shoo.
[ponies grumble]
Twilight Sparkle: And don't worry, I'll figure this out... somehow.

Twilight Sparkle: [sighs] Spike, what am I gonna do? All five of my best friends have really good reasons to go to the gala. Applejack, or Rainbow Dash? Pinkie Pie or Fluttershy, Rarity... Oh, who should go with me? [stomach rumbles]
"Horte Cuisine": Have you made your decision?
Twilight Sparkle: I CAN'T DECIDE!
Spike: Twilight, he just wants to take your order.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh. I would love a daffodil and daisy sandwich.
Spike: Do you have any rubies? No? Okay. I'll have the hay fries, extra crispy.
Twilight Sparkle: What do you think, Spike?
Spike: I think we have to try another restaurant. I mean, I like grass just fine, but would it hurt anybody to offer some gemstones?
Twilight Sparkle: I mean about the gala and the ticket and who I should take.
Spike: Oh. You're still on that?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, listen. How do I choose? And when I do choose, will the other four be mad at me? I mean, I could give up my ticket and give away two, but that would still leave three disappointed ponies. What if I--
"Horte Cuisine": Ah, your food.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh thank you. This looks so good. I'm sure everything will be much clearer once I eat.
[ponies galloping]
"Horte Cuisine": Em, madam? Are you going to eat your food in ze rain?
Twilight Sparkle: It's not raining. What's going on?
Rainbow Dash: Hi there, best friend forever I've ever ever had. Enjoying the sunny weather?
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash, what are you doing?
Rainbow Dash: Whaddya you mean? I just saw the smartest, most generous pony about to get rained on, so I thought I'd kick a hole in the clouds to keep her dry so she could dine in peace, that's all.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow, you're not trying to get extra consideration for the extra ticket by doing me extra special favors, are you?
Rainbow Dash: Me? No no no, of course not.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh.
Rainbow Dash: Seriously, I'd do it for any pony. Heh heh, eh.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow, I am not comfortable accepting unwanted favors, so I'd appreciate it if you close up that rain cloud right now.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh, fine. [zip]
Twilight Sparkle: That's better. [groans]
Rarity: Twilight, it's raining.
Twilight Sparkle: No, really?
Rarity: Come with me before you catch a cold.

Twilight Sparkle: Heh heh, oops, sorry.
Rarity: Oh no, it's quite all right. After all, we are... the best of friends, are we not? And you know what the best of friends do?
Twilight Sparkle: Uh...
Rarity: Makeovers!
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, Rarity, ow, this really isn't fixing it. I mean, thank you but, ooh, that's too tight.
Rarity: There. Oh, you're simply darling.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, yeah, it is kinda pretty, isn't it?
Rarity: And you. Oh Spike, I have a dandy little outfit for the dashing gent.
Spike: D-ah, ow, oh, hey, wow, watch it, whoa!
Twilight Sparkle: [giggles] Oh, Spike.
Rarity: Now you just need a hat.
Spike: Ugh, I told you, I don't want any part of this girly gala gunk, see you back at the library.
Rarity: [laughs] Oh, who needs him anyway. This is all about you, and how fabulous you'll look at The Grand Galloping Gala.
Twilight Sparkle: Wait, The Grand--
Rarity: [gasp] And oh, my goodness, what a coincidence. I happen to have an ensemble of my own that matches yours to a T. We would be the belles of the ball, you and I. Everyone would be clamoring for our attention. All eyes would be on us, and then everyone would finally know, the most beautiful, most talented, most sophisticated pony in all of Equestria is Rarity the unicorn. Ah, [nervous laughter] and Twilight Sparkle, of course.
Twilight Sparkle: I see what's going on. You're just buttering me up so I give you the extra ticket. Well it's not gonna work. You're going to have to wait for my decision just like everyone else. Now if you'll excuse me, I've been trying all day just to get some lunch.
Applejack: Did somepony say lunch?
Twilight Sparkle: You've got to be kidding me!
Applejack: I got apple pie, apple fritters, apple tarts, apple dumplings, apple crisps, apple crumblers, and apple Brown Betty. Uh, the dessert, not my auntie. What do you say there, best friend?
Twilight Sparkle: [stomach grumbles]
Applejack: Is that a yes?
Twilight Sparkle: No. No. I don't know who I'm giving the ticket to, and all these favors aren't making it any easier to decide. In fact, I'm less sure now than I was this morning. Ugh!
Applejack: So, that's a maybe?

Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, I never thought being showered with favors would be so aggravating.
Fluttershy: [humming]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Fluttershy, not you too?
Fluttershy: Oh, well, hello Twilight. I hope you don't mind, but we're all doing a little spring cleaning for you.
Twilight Sparkle: It's summer.
Fluttershy: Oh, well, better late than never, right? It was Angel's idea.
Twilight Sparkle: You're not doing this for the ticket, are you?
Fluttershy: Oh no, I'm doing this because you're my very best friend. Right Angel? Oh, yes, we are just doing this for the ticket.
Twilight Sparkle: No, no, no! Well, this was all very nice of you and Angel, but I'm not accepting any extra favors until I've made my final decision, so I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
Ponies: SURPRISE!
[trumpets blow]

[Pinkie Pie]
Twilight is my bestest friend
Whoopie, whoopie!


Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie...

[Pinkie Pie]
She's the cutest, smartest, all around best pony, pony!


Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie.

[Pinkie Pie]
I bet if I throw a super-duper fun party, party!


Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie!

[Pinkie Pie]
She'll give her extra ticket to the Gala to me!


Twilight Sparkle: PIIINKIIIE!!
Pinkie Pie: Yes, Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: At least the other ponies tried to be subtle about the ticket.
Drizzle: Wait, what ticket? What gala?
Pinkie Pie: Oh, you didn't know? Twilight has an extra ticket to the Grand Galloping Gala!
Ponies, in unison: The Grand Galloping Gala?
[offscreen: Have I ever told you how much I love your mane?]
[offscreen: I'll wash your dishes.]
Daisy: Would you like any help with your gardening?
Shoeshine: I have a cartload of extra carrots.
[offscreen: I'll paint your cart.]
[ponies offer favors]
Spike: What are we gonna do?
Twilight Sparkle: We're... gonna... run!
[music]
[ponies offer favors]
[offscreen: I'll do your taxes!]
[offscreen: Where is she? Where did she go? She's disappeared.]
Spike: Ugh, warn me next time you're gonna do that.
Twilight Sparkle: I didn't even know it was gonna happen. Now quick, lock the doors. Yaaaargh! I can't decide, I just can't decide. It's important to all of you and I just can't stand to disappoint any of you, and giving me gifts and doing me favors won't make any difference, because you're all my friends and I wanna make you all happy and I can't, I just can't!
Applejack: Twilight, sugar, I didn't mean to put so much pressure on you, and if it helps, I don't want the ticket anymore. You can give it to somepony else. I won't feel bad, I promise.
Fluttershy: Me too. I feel just awful that I made you feel so awful.
Pinkie Pie: And me too. It's no fun upsetting your friends.
Rarity: Twilight, it was unfair of me to try to force you as I did.
Rainbow Dash: Yes! That means the ticket is mine. Ha ha, [sing-song voice] I got the ticket, I got the ticket-- you know, I haven't perfected my signature moves for The Wonderbolts anyway. I don't need that ticket either.
Applejack: We all got so gun-ho about going to the gala that we couldn't see how un-gun-ho we were making you.
Ponies in unison: We're sorry, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, take down a note. Dear Princess Celestia,
I've learned that one of the joys of friendship is sharing your blessings, but when there's not enough blessings to go around, having more than your friends can make you feel pretty awful. So, though I appreciate the invitation, I will be returning both tickets to The Grand Galloping Gala.
Ponies in unison: What?!
Twilight Sparkle: If my friends can't all go, I don't wanna go either.
Applejack: Twilight, you don't have to do that.
Twilight Sparkle: Nope. I've made up my mind. Spike, you can send the letter now.
Spike: [gasp]
Fluttershy: Now you won't get to go to the gala either.
Twilight Sparkle: It's okay, girls. I couldn't possibly enjoy myself without my best friends there with me, so I would rather not go at all.
Spike: Hgh... hgh... urk... urk...
Applejack: Well wallop my withers, Spike. Isn't that just like a boy? Can't handle the least bit of sentiment.
Spike: [burp]
Applejack: Whoa Nelly!
Twilight Sparkle: A letter from the princess? That was fast.
Spike: "My faithful student Twilight,
Why didn't you just say so in the first place?" Six tickets to The Grand Galloping Gala.
[ponies gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: Now we can all go.
[ponies cheer]
Twilight Sparkle: [stomach rumbles] [laughs nervously]
Rarity: Allow us to treat you to dinner.
Rainbow Dash: What a great way to apologize.
Pinkie Pie: And to celebrate. Come on everyone, the cupcakes are on me.
Spike: How come I don't get a ticket to the gala? Hurk! [burp] "And one for you, Spike." [giggles] I mean, gross, I have to go too?
Applejack: [chuckles]

[music]
[credits]

Applejack: Boy howdy! I got my work cut out for me. That there is the biggest bumper crop o' apples I ever laid eyes on.
Big McIntosh: Eeyup. Too big for you to handle on your own.
Applejack: Come on, big brother! You need to rest up and get yourself better. I haven't met an apple orchard yet that I can't handle. Oops, sorry. I'll take a bite out of this job by day's end.
Big McIntosh: Biting off more than you can chew is just what I'm afraid of.
Applejack: Are you sayin' my mouth is makin' promises my legs can't keep?
Big McIntosh: Eeyup.
Applejack: Why of all the... This is your sister Applejack, remember? The loyalest of friends and the most dependable of ponies?
Big McIntosh: But still only one pony, and one pony plus hundreds o' apple trees just doesn't add up to...
Applejack: Don't you use your fancy mathematics to muddy the issue! I said I could handle this harvest and I'm gonna prove it to you. I'm gonna get every last apple out of those trees this applebuck season all by myself. [gulps]

[theme song]

Applejack: Well I better get kickin'. These apples aren't gonna shake themselves outta the trees. Hey! Oh no.

Rainbow Dash: STAMPEDE!
[cows mooing]
[ponies panicking]
Sweetie Drops: Stampede!
[ponies panicking]
Pinkie Pie: [laughter] Hey...! [vibrating] This makes my voice sound silly!
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie Pie, are you crazy?! Run!
Mayor Mare: Everypony calm down. There is no need to panic.
Rarity: But Mayor, whatever shall we do?
Rainbow Dash: Look there!
Applejack: YEEHAW!
[ponies cheer]
Applejack: Move aside, Winona. Put 'em up, girl!
Winona: [barking]
Rarity: [moan]
Pinkie Pie: This is the best rodeo show I've ever seen.
Applejack: Come on, little dogies! Turn! [whistle] Winona, put 'em up! Ha hah! Gotcha. [grunt]
Winona: [bark]
Applejack: Attagirl. [grunts] Yee haw!
[ponies cheer]
Applejack: Whoaaa. Hooie. Now what was that all about?
Daisy Jo: [moo] [cough] Oh my! Begging your pardon, Applejack, but Mooriella here saw one of those nasty snakes.
[cows startled]
Daisy Jo: And it just gave us all the willies, don'tcha know.
Applejack: I completely understand. Just next time, try and steer clear of Ponyville.
Daisy Jo: We certainly will, Applejack. So long, Winona!
[ponies cheer]
[crowd: Applejack!]
Applejack: Yee haw!
Pinkie Pie: Yee haw! Ride 'em, cowpony!
Mayor Mare: Applejack was just... just...
Pinkie Pie: Appletastic!
Mayor Mare: Exactly. We must do something to thank Applejack for single-hoofedly saving the town.
Pinkie Pie: I know.

Pinkie Pie: A party!
Twilight Sparkle: We all ready?
Rarity: Just one last thing. Now we're ready.
Twilight Sparkle: Is Applejack all set?
Rainbow Dash: Actually, I haven't seen her all week.
Pinkie Pie: Not since the stampede.
Rainbow Dash: But she'll be here for sure. Applejack is never late.

Twilight Sparkle: Welcome, everypony! Today we are here to honor a pony we can always count on to help in matters great and small. A pony whose contributions to--
Rainbow Dash: Did you see Applejack's slick moves out there? What an athlete. This week she's gonna help me with my new flying trick, and I know it's gonna be so awesome.
Twilight Sparkle: Exactly. And...
Pinkie Pie: This week, I get to run Sugarcube Corner for the first time.
Twilight Sparkle: What does that have to do with Applejack?
Pinkie Pie: Oh. Applejack, one of the best bakers ever, is gonna help me. Applejack makes everything great, so free samples for everypony!
[ponies cheering]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh-kay, that's great. Now if I could just make a point without being inter--
Fluttershy: Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: --rupted.
Fluttershy: Twilight, I'm so sorry, but I just wanted to mention that Applejack is also helping me this week with the official bunny census, where we count up all the new baby bunnies that were born this season. She's gonna help gather them using her wonderful herding skills.
Twilight Sparkle: Anyone else? Anyone? No? Well then, as I was trying to say... Urgh! Never mind.
Mayor Mare: Ah-ahem. And so, with no further ado, it is my privilege to give the prize, Pony of Ponyville Award, to our beloved guest of honor, a pony of the utmost trustworthiness, reliability, and integrity. Ponyville's most capable and dependable friend: Applejack!
[crowd cheer]
Spike: Cool! Way to go Applejack, that was awesome! I mean-- heh.
Mayor Mare: Ah-ahem.
Spike: Awkward.
Applejack: I'm here. I'm here. [yawn] [sigh] Sorry I'm late--whoa--I was just... whoa... Did I get your tail? Miss Mayor. Thank you kindly for this here... award thingy. [yawn] It's so bright and shiny and, heh, heh heh, I sure do look funny heh. Ooo-ooo.
Pinkie Pie: Woo-ooo.
Applejack: Ooo-ooo.
Twilight Sparkle: Okay. Well, thank you Applejack for saving us from that scary stampede, and always being there for everypony.
Applejack: [yawn] Yeah. I like helping the ponyfolks and [yawn] and stuff. [snore] Oh, uh, yeah. Uh, Thanks.
[sounds of dragging metal]
Twilight Sparkle: Was it just me, or did Applejack seem a little--
Rainbow Dash: Tired?
Fluttershy: Dizzy?
Rarity: Messy? Well, did you see her mane?
Pinkie Pie: She seemed fine to me. Woo! Woo!
Twilight Sparkle: Hmm.

Applejack: [grunts] [sigh] Phew. [gasp] O-oah.
Twilight Sparkle: What on Earth is that pony doing?
Applejack: Whoops.
Twilight Sparkle: Hey Applejack!
Applejack: [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack.
Applejack: [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack. AppleJACK!
Applejack: Oh, howdy, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: What is all this?
Applejack: It's Applebuck season. Whoa.
Twilight Sparkle: Applewhat season?
Applejack: Neh, It's what the Apple family calls harvestin' time. We gather all the apples from the trees so we can sell 'em.
Twilight Sparkle: But why are you doing it all alone?
Applejack: 'cause Big McIntosh hurt himself.
Twilight Sparkle: What about all those relatives I've met when I first came to Ponyville? Can't they help?
Applejack: [sigh] They were just here for the Apple family reunion. They actually live all over Equestria and are busy harvestin' their own orchards. So, uh, I'm on my own. Which means, I should really get back to work. Ahem... hint hint? Get back to work?
Twilight Sparkle: Fine.
Applejack: Could you step aside, Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: I just did. Applejack, you don't look so good.
Applejack: Eh, don't any of you three worry none, I'm just fine and dandy. Whoa.
Twilight Sparkle: Do you... want some help?
Applejack: Help? No way, no how.
Twilight Sparkle: But there's no way you can do it all on your own.
Applejack: Is that a challenge?
Twilight Sparkle: Uhm... no?
Applejack: Well, I'm gonna prove to you that I can do it! Now if you'll excuse me, I've got apples to buck.

Rainbow Dash: There you are.
Applejack: [yawn] I'm a might' sorry, Rainbow. I was busy applebuckin' and I guess ah, I closed my eyes for a second and, when I woke up, I was late. Now, what's this new trick a' yours?
Rainbow Dash: See this contraption?
Applejack: Uh... Yeah.
Rainbow Dash: Well, I'm gonna stand on one end, then you're gonna jump down from that platform, launching me into the air faster than I can take off on my own. Once I'm in the air, I'm gonna do some amazing flips and spins that are sure to impress the Wonderbolts.
Applejack: Isn't that a might' dangerous?
Rainbow Dash: Pfft, Heh, not for a pony who can fly.
Applejack: Well, all right-y then. Oh my.
Rainbow Dash: Ready? One... two... THREE!
Applejack: [crash]
Rainbow Dash: Umm... maybe I wasn't clear. You're supposed to land on the other end.
Applejack: Got it. [grunt] [grunt] [grunt]
Rainbow Dash: Applejack, what the hay is going on? I mean, I thought I was working with Ponyville's best athlete!
Applejack: You are. I'm okay. Really. I-I have an idea. Watch this. [groan] Ta da! Oh... Maybe not. Okay, one more try. I'm sure to get it this time.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh!
Applejack: Heh heh... Here I go!
Rainbow Dash: Wait, Applejaaaaack!
Applejack: You're welcome!

Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
Twilight Sparkle: Can I help you?
Rainbow Dash: I think somepony else needs your help.
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack?
Rainbow Dash: Yep.

Applejack: Ow!
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack, can we talk? Applejack, can we talk?
Applejack: Can bees squawk?! I don't think so.
Twilight Sparkle: No. Can we talk?
Applejack: Twenty stalks? Bean or celery?
Twilight Sparkle: No! I need to talk to you.
Applejack: You need to walk to the zoo? Well, who's stoppin' you?
Twilight Sparkle: I need to talk to you!
Applejack: Oh! Well why didn't you say so? What you wanna talk about?
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash dropped in to see me today.
Applejack: That's quite neighborly of her.
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, except that she crashed onto my balcony after you launched her into the air.
Applejack: Oh, yeah. I wasn't feeling quite myself this morning.
Twilight Sparkle: Because you're working too hard and you need help.
Applejack: What? Kelp? I don't need kelp. I don't even like seaweed.
Twilight Sparkle: HELP! You need HELP!
Applejack: Nothin' doin', Twilight. I'm gonna prove to you, t'everypony, that I can do this on my own. Ow! Now if you'll excuse me, I've gotta go help Pinkie Pie.
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh.

Mrs. Cake: Now Pinkie Pie, are you sure you're up for baking the muffins and running the store this afternoon?
Pinkie Pie: Yes siree bob, Mrs Cake. Plus, I have Ponyville's prized pony to help me out. Why, she's the best baker ever. Right, Applejack?
Mr. Cake: No? You're not the best baker ever?
Applejack: WHAT? Oh no! I mean, don't you fret. I can bake anything from fritters to pies in the blink of an eye.
Mrs. Cake: [sigh] All right. Well, see you later, girls!
Pinkie Pie: Stop with the shakin', it's time to get bakin'.

Pinkie Pie: All right-y! I'll get the sugar and the eggs. Can you get me some chocolate chips?
Applejack: Eh, uh, whu, what was that?
Pinkie Pie: Chocolate chips.
Applejack: Chips... got it. Tater chips, a little salty and dry, okie-dokie. What next?
Pinkie Pie: Baking soda.
Applejack: Soda. Perfect. That'll get the tater chips nice and wet. Now what?
Pinkie Pie: A cup of flour.
Applejack: A cup o' sour? Well, lemons are sure sour. One cup o' sour, comin' up. Anything else, Pinkie?
Pinkie Pie: One last thing. Wheat germ.
Applejack: Wheat worms? Oh, that must be fancy talk for earthworms.
Pinkie Pie: Now that's gonna be delicious.
Applejack: If you say so.

Pinkie Pie: Free muffin sample spectacular!
[ponies: mmm, muffins]
Applejack: Yeah! Muffin spectacles! Get 'em while they're hot.

Twilight Sparkle: We came as soon as we heard.
Nurse Redheart: Oh thank you, Twilight. We need all the help we can get.
[ponies moaning]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no! What happened?
Spike: [sniff]
Nurse Redheart: It was a mishap with some of the baked goods.
Pinkie Pie: No, not baked goods, baked bads. [groans]
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack.
Spike: [chomp] Want one?

Applejack: [grunt] [snore] What? Huh? [grunt] [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack, we need to talk.
Applejack: Wha, huh? Oh, it's you, Twilight. [yawn] I know what you're gonna say, but the answer is still no.
Twilight Sparkle: Not to upset your applecart, but you need help.
Applejack: Hardy har. [groan] And no I don't.
Twilight Sparkle: Here, let me help.
Applejack: Help? No thanks. [groan] A little more... [groan] Little... [grunt] There. I'll prove that this apple can handle these apples. Come on [grunt] apples [grunt] fall off [grunt].
Twilight Sparkle: AJ, think you're beating a dead... tree.
Applejack: I knew that.
Twilight Sparkle: Actually, Applejack, I had something else to talk to you about. I just came back from Ponyville Urgent Care and--
Applejack: You know, I'm a little busy to get lectured right now, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: But if you'd just let me help--
Applejack: Ugh. No, no, NO! How many times do I gotta say it? I don't need no help from nopony!
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh. That pony is stubborn as a mule.
[mule neighing]
Twilight Sparkle: No offense.
Mule: None taken.

Fluttershy: Oh Applejack! Thank you so much for offering your herding skills for the annual rabbit round up.
Applejack: Ugh. Why are we doin' this?
Fluttershy: Well, lots of new baby bunnies have been born, so it's my job to get a count of all the new families.
Applejack: Fine. Can we just get on with it?
Fluttershy: Certainly, but remember, these are bunnies we're dealing with, not cows. They're a timid bunch and need to be treated gently.
Applejack: I do NOT need any direction on corrallin' critters. Right, Winona?
Winona: [barks]
Fluttershy: Okay, little bunnies! I need you to all gather here in the middle.
Applejack: That's right! Let's go, bunnies. In the center. Hop to it. Swell. Just swell. Put 'em up, Winona!
Winona:[barks]
Fluttershy: Applejack! Winona! Stop! You're scaring them.
Applejack: We know what we're doin'. Get along, little bunnies.
Winona: [barks] [growls]
Fluttershy: Oh no.

Rainbow Dash: STAMPEDE!
Daisy: [yelps] Stampede!
[ponies scream]
[rabbits running]
Lily Valley: [sigh]

Twilight Sparkle: [humming] [gasp]
Rose: The horror, the horror.
Lily Valley: It was awful.
Daisy: A disaster. A horrible, horrible disaster.
Twilight Sparkle: I don't get it.
Lily Valley: Our gardens, destroyed.
Rose: Every last flower, devoured.
Daisy: By... by... THEM!
Fluttershy: Oh my. Oh... Please stop, little bunnies. Oh no! Please, let's go home. Oh my goodness.
Twilight Sparkle: All right. Enough is enough.

Applejack: Must [gasp] keep [gasp] buckin'... just [gasp] a few [gasp] more. Must finish harvestin'.
Twilight Sparkle: All right, Applejack. Your applebucking hasn't just caused you problems, it's over-propelled Pegasus', practically poisoned plenty of ponies, and terrorized bushels of brand new bouncing baby bunnies. I don't care what you say, you. Need. Help.
Applejack: [grunts] Ha! No, I don't. Look, I did it. I harvested the entire Sweet Apple Acres without your help. How d'ya like them apples?
Big McIntosh: Um, how do you like them apples?
Applejack: [mumbling] Where'd all the apple...? [mumbling] [sigh]

Twilight Sparkle: Applejack. Applejack.
Applejack: Huh?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, good, you're okay. Now Applejack, I completely respect the Apple family ways. You're always there to help any pony in need, so maybe you can put a little of your stubborn pride aside and allow your friends to help you.
Applejack: Okay, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: I am not taking "no" for an answer--what?
Applejack: Yes, Twilight. Yes, please. I could really use your help.
Twilight Sparkle: [chuckles] [sigh]

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
My friend Applejack is the best friend a pony could ever have, and she's always there to help any pony. The only trouble is, when she needs help, she finds it hard to accept it, so while friendship is about giving of ourselves to friends, it's also about accepting what our friends have to offer.

Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle

Applejack: How about y'all take a little break? I got some fine apple juice waitin' for ya! [sigh] Girls, I can't thank you enough for this help. I was acting a bit stubborn.
Twilight Sparkle: A bit?
Applejack: Okay. A mite stubborn, and I'm awful sorry. Now, I know the town gave me the Prized Pony award, but the real award is having you five as my friends.
Rainbow Dash: Phew! That applebucking sure made me hungry.
Spike: And I've got the perfect treat.
Pinkie Pie: Eeew... Spike, I threw those all away. Where'd you get them?
Spike: From the trash.
Ponies:  [in unison] EW!
Spike: Just a little nibble? Come on.
Ponies: Ew! Gross!

[music]
[credits]

Pinkie Pie: Hoof-biting action overload! She was like a stunt superstar, flying higher and higher, and then Rainbow Dash swooped down--swoosh--and right before she hit the ground--shoom-she pulled up--vrrrmmm!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh.
Pinkie Pie: And then she looped around and around like whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh. Phew.
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash!
Rainbow Dash: [grunt] Pinkie Pie? Not again.
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: Not now, Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie: But, but Rainbow Dash–
Rainbow Dash: I'm in the middle of something.
Pinkie Pie: But–
Rainbow Dash: I said not now--[grunt]
Pinkie Pie: I was gonna tell you to look out for that mountain.
Rainbow Dash: [grumble]

[theme song]

Pinkie Pie: [humming] Hi, I'm looking for Rainbow Dash. Have you seen her? Hi there, have you seen Rainbow Dash? Okay, thanks anyway. Twilight, have you seen Rainbow Dash anywhere?
Twilight Sparkle: Isn't she right up there?
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: [grunt]

Rainbow Dash: Phew. That was close.
Pinkie Pie: Hi!
Rainbow Dash: Aah!

Rainbow Dash: [pants]
Pinkie Pie: Hi again.
Rainbow Dash: Aah!

Pinkie Pie: Pfeh. I need a favor, Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: Waaa--oh, forget it.
Pinkie Pie: I totally promise it'll be totally fun.
Rainbow Dash: [sighs] Okay.

Pinkie Pie: Over to the right. No no, a little to the left. Oh wait, back to the right. Now a little leftish while staying rightly. Stop. Hmm. Maybe a few inches to the south. Now a couple centimeters north. Okay. One more smidgimeter to the--
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie!
Pinkie Pie: Uh, I mean, perfect. Now wait for my signal.
Spike: [humming]
[thunder]
Spike: D-aah! [hiccups]
Pinkie Pie: [laughing] Oh Rainbow Dash, we startled Spike into getting the hiccups.
Rainbow Dash: [chuckles]
Spike: [chuckles] Good one, Pinkie [hiccup] Pie. [hiccup] You're always pulling a fast one [hiccup] on me. [hiccup] Nnaa--
Pinkie Pie: Oh no, you're not hurt are you?
Spike: Ne--[hiccup]--eh, don't be [hiccup] silly, dragons are [hiccup] fire-proof.
Pinkie Pie: Oh, okay, good.
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [laughs]
Spike: I wish the same thing [hiccup] were true with scrolls.
Princess Celestia: [gasp]
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [laugh]
Spike: [hiccups]
Pinkie Pie: Have you ever seen anything more hilarious? [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: I can think of one thing.
Pinkie Pie: Aah! [hiccup] [giggles] [hiccup] [chuckles] [hiccup] [laughs] [hiccup]
Rainbow Dash: I didn't take you for a prankster, Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie: Are you [hiccup] kidding? [hiccup] I love to pull pranks. It's all [hiccup] in good fun, and Pinkie Pie lo--[hiccup]--oves to have [hiccup] fun! [hiccup]
Rainbow Dash: You know Pinkie Pie, you're not as annoying as I thought.
Pinkie Pie: [hiccup]
Rainbow Dash: You wanna hang out?
Pinkie Pie: [hiccup] That'd be [hiccup] I'd really [hiccup] When do [hiccup] I mean [hiccup] When would you [hiccup]
Rainbow Dash: A simple nod would do.
Pinkie Pie: Mmm-hmm.

Rainbow Dash: Is she even home?
Pinkie Pie: I don't know. This is gonna be gold.
Rainbow Dash: There she is.
Rarity: Ooo. [sneezes]
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [laughs]
Pinkie Pie: Aaa-choo!

Twilight Sparkle: Hmm?
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [laughs]

Applejack: [gasp] Land sakes!
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [chuckles]
[water splash]
Applejack: [chuckles]

[squeaky toy]
Pinkie Pie: Is someone over there? Who're we gonna squirt? Who're we gonna squirt?
Rainbow Dash: [chuckles] Fluttershy.
Pinkie Pie: WHAT? [spits] Nononononono, we can't prank Fluttershy, I mean, she's so sensitive. It'll hurt her feelings, even our most harmless prank.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, you're right. [raspberry] Huh. We need another victim who's made of tougher stuff. So, who's it gonna be?
Pinkie Pie: Oh, [chuckles] I've got someone in mind. [chuckles] The toughest around.
Rainbow Dash: Oh, awesome. Who? Who? Do I know them?
Pinkie Pie: [giggles] Oh, yes. [giggles] You're very close.
Rainbow Dash: [chuckles] Good one, Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash: [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: Ridiculous.

Pinkie Pie: [blows party hooter] Rise and shine Rainbow Dash! It's a brand new day and we got a lot of pranking to-- Ooh.
Rainbow Dash: Mornin', Pinks. Gilda, this is my gal pal, Pinkie Pie.
Gilda: Hey. What's up?
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie, this is my griffon friend, Gilda.
Pinkie Pie: What's a griffon?
Rainbow Dash: She's half-eagle, half-lion.
Gilda: And all awesome. Raa. Heh-haa. Yeah, that's right.
Rainbow Dash: Gilda's my best friend from my days at Junior Speedster flight camp. Hey, remember the chant?
Gilda: Sha, they made us recite it every morning, I'll never get that lame thing out of my head.
Rainbow Dash: Sooo...
Gilda: Ugh. Only for you, Dash.
[Rainbow Dash and Gilda]
Junior Speedsters are our lives,
Sky-bound soars and daring dives
Junior Speedsters, it's our quest,
To some day be the very best!

Pinkie Pie: [laughs] Oh that was awesome, and it gave me a great idea for a prank. Gilda, you game?
Gilda: Huh. Well, I groove on a good prank as much as the next griffon. But Dash, you promised me we'd get a flying session in this morning.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, uh, well, Pinkie Pie, you don't mind, do you? Gilda just got here. We'll catch up with you later.
Pinkie Pie: Oh. Um, well sure, no problem. Have fun you guys, I'll, uh, just catch up with you-- [sigh] later. [blows party hooter very sadly]

Gilda and Rainbow Dash: [laughing]
Gilda: Whoa, that was sweet. Just like old times.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, only faster. So now what?
Pinkie Pie: Hey there.
Gilda and Rainbow Dash: Huh?
Pinkie Pie: It's later. And I caught up.
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie, you are so random.
Gilda: Hey Dash, think you got enough gas left to beat me to that cloud?
Rainbow Dash: A race? You are so on.
Gilda: One, two, three, go.
Pinkie Pie: Hey!
Rainbow Dash: I win.
Gilda: As if. I won, dude.
Rainbow Dash: No way.
Gilda: Yes way.
Rainbow Dash: Oh, come on, I was way ahead of you.
Gilda: Uh, I don't think so.
Rainbow Dash: Oh Geez, dream on.
Gilda: Remember back in camp? I–
Rainbow Dash: There is no way you beat me.
Gilda: Whatever.
Pinkie Pie: Wow guys, that was really close, but I think Rainbow Dash beat you by a teeny weeny itty bitty hair, or a teeny weeny itty bitty feather.
Rainbow Dash: Hah, see? Good thing Pinkie Pie's here to keep you honest, G.
Gilda: Okay... Dash, last one to that cloud up there is a gnarly dragon egg. Go! [To Pinkie Pie] I think the high altitude is making you dizzy.
Pinkie Pie: Wait, guys! Oh wow, you guys almost got away from me that time.
Gilda: So, Dash, got any new moves in your tricktionary, or are you 100% old school?
Rainbow Dash: New moves? Heh, sit back G, this is gonna take a while.
Gilda: Hey Pinkie, c'mere.
Pinkie Pie: Yeah?
Gilda: Don't you know how to take get lost for an answer? Dash doesn't need to hang with a dweeb like you now that I'm around. You're dorkin' up the skies, Stinkie Pie, so make like a bee and BUZZ OFF.
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] Whaaa-aaa–
Rainbow Dash: Try matching that. Hey, where's Pinkie Pie and her crazy contraption?
Gilda: Eh, she left. Something about being as busy as a bee.
Pinkie Pie: Hmph!

Twilight Sparkle: So Pinkie Pie, are you sure that this friend of Rainbow Dash is really so mean?
Pinkie Pie: Um, yeah. She keeps stealing Rainbow Dash away, she pops my balloons, and she told me to buzz off. I've never met a griffon this mean. Well, actually, I've never met a griffon at all, but I bet if I had, she wouldn't have been as mean and grumpy as Gilda.
Twilight Sparkle: You know what I think, Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie: Hmm?
Twilight Sparkle: Well, I think... you're jealous.
Pinkie Pie: Jealous?
Spike: Green with envy. Well, in your case, pink with envy.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, yes. Jealous. Listen Pinkie, I don't want to upset you, but just because Rainbow Dash has another friend doesn't make Gilda a grump. I mean, perhaps it's you, Pinkie, who needs to improve her attitude.
Pinkie Pie: Improve my attitude? But I... D... B.. It's Gilda that... D... Are you seri... [scream of frustration]
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]

Pinkie Pie: Maybe Twilight is right. Maybe Gilda isn't a big meanie grumpy mean-meanie-pants. Maybe I'm just a big jealous judgmental jealous-jealousy-pants. [sigh]

Gilda: [laughing] That was sweet.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh, I gotta take care of a few weather jobs around here. Shouldn't take long. Just, uh, hang out in town and I'll come find ya.
Gilda: That's cool, I guess. I'm gonna go chow down.
Rainbow Dash: Later.
Granny Smith: [sniffs] Aaah! A rattler, a rattler! Run for the hills! Everybody forsake yourselves!
Gilda: This stuff ain't fresh, dude.
Pinkie Pie: Aw, poor Granny Smith, she didn't know it was a joke. How mean. No, no, I can't misjudge her. It was kind of a funny prank, I guess.
Gilda: [chews]
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] I did misjudge her. She's not only a meanie mean-pants, she's also a thief. Nonononono, she might give it back. It's just a joke.
Fluttershy: Alright little ones, this way, this way. Mama duck, you're free and clear.
Gilda: Hey.
Fluttershy: Please excuse me.
Gilda: I'm walkin' here.
Fluttershy: Oh, um, I'm sorry. I-I-I was just trying to...
Gilda: [mocking] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Why don't you just watch where you're going, doofus?
Fluttershy: B-b-b-but I... I...
Gilda: [breathes in, roars]
Fluttershy: [bleat] [sobs]
Gilda: Ugh, please, all these lame ponies are driving me buggy. I gotta bail.
Pinkie Pie: She's a grump, and a thief, and a bully. The meanest kind of mean meanie-pants there is. I can take it, but no one treats Fluttershy like that. No. One. This calls for extreme measures, Pinkie Pie style.

Pinkie Pie: Welcome, welcome. Welcome!
Applejack: Who's this Gilda I've heard nothing about?
Rarity: I hear she's an old friend of Rainbow Dash. A griffon, so rare.
Twilight Sparkle: You've met Gilda, right? What's she like?
Fluttershy: Oh, um, well, I'll tell you later, Twilight.
Pinkie Pie: Welcome. Welcome.
Fluttershy: Um, Pinkie Pie, about this party for Gilda. Umm... Do you really think it's a good idea? I mean–
Pinkie Pie: Don't worry your pretty little head about mean old Gilda. Your auntie Pinkie Pie's got it all taken care of.
Fluttershy: I'm a year older than you.
Pinkie Pie: Gilda! I'm so honored to throw you one of my signature Pinkie Pie parties, and I really, truly, sincerely, hope you feel welcome here amongst all us pony folk.
Gilda: [grunt]
Pinkie Pie: [laughs]
[laughter]
Rainbow Dash: Oh Pinkie Pie, the old hoof-shake buzzer. You are a scream.
Gilda: Yeah [chuckles nervously] uh, good one, Pinkie Pie.
Rainbow Dash: Come on G, I'll introduce you to some of my other friends.
Gilda: Right behind you Dash. I know what you're up to.
Pinkie Pie: Great.
Gilda: Rrrh. I know what you're planning.
Pinkie Pie: [giggles] Well, I hope so. This wasn't supposed to be a surprise party.
Gilda: I mean, I've got my eye on you.
Pinkie Pie: And I got my eye on you. Everyone, I'd like you all to meet Gilda, a long-time, dear friend of Rainbow Dash. Let's honor her and welcome her to Ponyville.
[ponies cheer]
Pinkie Pie: Please help yourself.
Gilda: Vanilla lemon drops. Don't mind if I do. HOT!
Rainbow Dash: G, the punch.
Gilda: [gasp] [gulp] Huh?
[laughter]
Pinkie Pie: Well, whaddya know, pepper in the vanilla lemon drops, and the punch served in a dribble glass.
Rainbow Dash: Ha. Priceless. Priceless. [laughs]
Gilda: [gulp] [gasp] Yeah, hilarious.
Rainbow Dash: Hey G, look, presents.
[laughter]
Applejack: Spittin' snakes. Hah, somepony pulled that prank on me last month.
Gilda: Ha ha. I bet I know who that was.
Pinkie Pie: You do?

[ponies chatter, birds singing]
Pinkie Pie: Cake time everypony.
Spike: Hey, can I blow out the candles?
Twilight Sparkle: Why don't we let Gilda blow out the candles, Spike. She is the guest of honor after all.
Spike: Ugh.
Gilda: Exactly. [gasp] [blow] [gasp] [blow]
[laughter]
Gilda: [continued gasping and blowing]
Spike: [laughs] Re-lighting birthday candles, I love that prank. What a classic.
Pinkie Pie: Now, I wonder who could've done that.
Gilda: Yeah, I wonder.
Spike: Mmm, who cares. This cake is amazing.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike.
Spike: What? It's great, try some.
Rainbow Dash: Hey G, you're not upset about some silly candles, are you?
Gilda: No way Dash, like I said, I'm down with a good prank.
Rainbow Dash: Come on then, let's have some cake.
Gilda: Hey, I'm watching you. Like a hawk.
Pinkie Pie: Why? Can't you watch me like a griffon?
Applejack: Hey y'all, it's pin the tail on the pony. Let's play.
Rarity: Oh, my favorite game. Can I go first? Can I have the purple tail?
Gilda: Well, I am the guest of honor, and I'll have the purple tail.
Pinkie Pie: Yeah, Gilda should definitely go first. Let's get you blindfolded.
Gilda: Hey what-- ugh-- what are you doing? Rrrah.
Pinkie Pie: We're spinning you around and around and then you can pin the tail on the pony. Now just walk straight ahead and pin the tail.
Gilda: [mockingly] Now just walk straight ahead and pin the tail. Hmph, yeah, right. This is another prank, isn't it? I'm going this way.
Pinkie Pie: Wait. The poster is this--
Gilda: Whoa whaa waah waah waaaaah [groan]
Pinkie Pie: Uh, Gilda? You pinned the tail on the wrong end.
[ponies laugh]
Gilda: [roar] This is your idea of a good time? I've never met a lamer bunch of dweebs in all my life. And Pinkie Pie, you! You are queen lame-o with your weak little party pranks. Did you really think you could make me lose my cool? Well, Dash and I have ten times as much cool as the rest of you put together. Come on Dash, we're bailing on this pathetic scene. Come on Rainbow Dash. I said, we're leaving.
Rainbow Dash: You know Gilda, I was the one who set up all those weak pranks at this party.
Gilda: [gasp] What?
Pinkie Pie: Ooh.
Rainbow Dash: So I guess I'm queen lame-o.
Gilda: Come on, Dash, you're joshing me.
Rainbow Dash: They weren't all meant for you specifically, it was just dumb luck that you set them all off.
Pinkie Pie: I shoulda known, that dribble cup had Rainbow Dash written all over it.
Gilda: No way. It was Pinkie Pie, she set up this party to trip me up, to make a fool of me.
Pinkie Pie: Me? I threw this party to improve your attitude. I thought a good party might turn that frown upside down.
Rainbow Dash: And you sure didn't need any help making a fool of yourself. You know, this is not how I thought my old friends would treat my new friends. If being cool is all you care about, maybe you should go find some new cool friends someplace else.
Gilda: Rrgh. Yeah? Well you, you, you are such a, a flip-flop: cool one minute and lame the next. When you decide not to be lame anymore, gimme a call. [bird of prey shriek]
Rainbow Dash: Not cool.
Spike: Wow, talk about a party pooper.
Twilight Sparkle: Wow, what was that about?
[ponies talking indistinctly]
Merry May: Um, what just happened?
Pony: Really awkward.
Rainbow Dash: I'm sorry everypony, for bringing Gilda here. I didn't know how rude she was. And Pinkie Pie, I'm really sorry she ruined that awesome party you put on for her.
Pinkie Pie: Hey, if you want to hang out with party poopers, that's your business.
Rainbow Dash: I'd rather hang out with you. No hard feelings?
Pinkie Pie: No hard feelings.
[laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: Hey Pinkie. Sorry I accused you of misjudging Gilda. Looks likes I'm the one who misjudged you.
Pinkie Pie: It's okay Twilight, even you can't be a super smart smarty smart-pants all the time. Come on everypony, there's still a whole lotta party to finish.
[ponies cheer]

Twilight Sparkle: Dearest Princess Celestia,
Today I learned that it's hard to accept when somepony you like wants to spend time with somepony who's not so nice. Though it's impossible to control who your friends hang out with, it is possible to control your own behavior. Just continue to be a good friend. In the end, the difference between a false friend and the one who is true will surely come to light.

Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle

Princess Celestia: Dear Twilight Sparkle,
My most faithful student... Oh! Heh, wrong ink. [sigh] [chuckles]

[music]
[credits]

Spike: Come on, Twilight, you can do it!
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, here goes.
[magical chime]
Spike: Ha ha! Ya did it! Growing magic, that's number twenty-five. Twenty-five different types of tricks and counting. And I think this is the best trick so far. Hello, Rarity. What's that? Aw, it's nothin', just my awesome mustache. [laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry, Romeo. As attractive and enticing as you look, it's just for practice, and it's gotta go.
Spike: Wait! Aw, rats.
Twilight Sparkle: [laughter]

[theme song]

Spike: Twenty-five, Twilight. Twenty-five different kinds of tricks and counting. I thought unicorns were only supposed to have a little magic that matches their special talents!
Twilight Sparkle: True, for ponies whose talents are for things like cooking or singing or math. But what if a unicorn's special talent is magic?
Spike: Like you, Twilight, and you know a ton of magic.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Spike, stop. I'm sure there are lots of ponies right here in Ponyville that know just as much magic as me.
Spike: Are you kiddin'? I don't think there's another unicorn in all of Equestria with your kind of ability, Twilight.
Snails: Gangway! Comin' through!
Spike: Augh! Snips, Snails! What's goin' on?
Snails: Wha, haven't you heard?
Spike: Whoa!
Snails: There's a new unicorn in town!
Snips: Yeah! They say that she's got more magical powers than any other unicorn ever!
Twilight Sparkle: Really?
Spike: Aw, no way, that honor goes to Twilight here.
Twilight Sparkle: Where is this unicorn?
Snails: Ho, she's in the town square. Come on!
Snips: Yeah! [laughter] Come on! Whooo!

Trixie: Come one, come all! Come and witness the amazing magic of the Great and Powerful Trixie!
Audience: Ooh!
Trixie: Watch in awe as the Great and Powerful Trixie performs the most spectacular feats of magic ever witnessed by pony eyes!
[fireworks and fanfare]
Rarity: My, my, my! What boasting!
Spike: Come on, no pony's as magical as Twi— Twi— Twi— Oh! [clears throat] Hey, Rarity, I, uh— Mustache!
Twilight Sparkle: There's nothing wrong with being talented, is there?
Applejack: Nothin' at all, 'cept in when someone goes around showin' it off like a school filly with fancy new ribbons.
Rarity: Just because one has the ability to perform lots of magic does not make one better than the rest of us.
Rainbow Dash: Especially when ya got me around being better than the rest of us. [laughter] Eh, I mean, yeah, uh, magic shmagic. Boo!
Trixie: Well, well, well, it seems we have some neighsayers in the audience. Who is so ignorant as to challenge the magical ability of the Great and Powerful Trixie? Do they not know that they're in the presence of the most magical unicorn in all of Equestria?
Rarity: [raspberry] Just who does she think she is?
Spike: Yeah! Since we all know that Twilight here is—
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Shhh!
Spike: What? What's wrong?
Twilight Sparkle: You see the way they reacted to Trixie? I don't want anyone thinking I'm a show-off.
[fanfare]
Rainbow Dash: So, "Great and Powerful Trixie". What makes you think you're so awesome, anyway?
Trixie: Heh, why, only the Great and Powerful Trixie has magic strong enough to vanquish the dreaded ursa major!
[fanfare, fireworks]
Audience: Ahh!
Snips: What?
Snails: No way!
Trixie: When all hope was lost, the ponies of Hoofington had no one to turn to, but the Great and Powerful Trixie stepped in, and with her awesome magic, vanquished the ursa major and sent it back to its cave deep within the Everfree Forest!
Snips and Snails: Saw, sweet!
Snips: That settles it.
Snails: Trixie truly is the most talented, the most magical, the most awesome unicorn in Ponyville.
Snips: No, in all of Equestria!
Spike: How do you know? You didn't see it! And besides, Twi— [zip!] Mmph! M-mmph!
Trixie: [laughter] It's true, my enthusiastic little admirers. Trixie is most certainly the best in Ponyville.
[crickets]
Trixie: Don't believe the Great and Powerful Trixie? [chuckles] Well then, I hereby challenge you, Ponyvillians. Anything you can do, I can do better. Any takers? Anyone? Hmm? Or is Trixie destined to be the greatest equine who has ever lived!?
[fireworks and fanfare]
Spike: [zip] Please! She's unbearable! Ya gotta show her! Ya just gotta! [cries]
Twilight Sparkle : There's no way I'm going to use my magic now, Spike. Especially since—
Trixie: Hmm, how about you!
Twilight Sparkle: [gulps]
[music]

Trixie: Well, how about it? Hm? Is there anything you can do that the Great and Powerful Trixie can't?
Twilight Sparkle: I— I—
Trixie: Well, little hayseed?
Applejack: That's it! I can't stand for no more of this!
Spike: You show her, AJ!
Applejack: Can your magical powers do this?
[banjo music]
Audience: Whooo! [cheers]
Applejack: Top that, missy.
Trixie: Oh ye of little talent. Watch and be amazed at the magic of Trixie!
[snake charmer music]
Applejack: Whoa! Uh!
Audience: [laughter and cheers]
Trixie: Once again, the Great and Powerful Trixie prevails.
Rainbow Dash: There's no need to go struttin' around and showin' off like that.
Trixie: Oh?
Rainbow Dash: That's my job!
[electric guitar music]
Rainbow Dash: They don't call me "Rainbow" and "Dash" for nothin'!
Audience: [cheers]
Trixie: When Trixie is through, the only thing they'll call you is loser.
[rapid music]
Rainbow Dash: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa-a-a-a! [ulp] I think I'm [gulp] gonna be sick.
Trixie: Seems like any pony with a dash of good sense would think twice before tussling with the Great Trixie.
[thunder]
Rainbow Dash: Ow!
[laughter]
Spike: What we need is another unicorn to challenge her. Someone with some magic of her own.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah! A unicorn to show this unicorn who's boss.
Applejack: A real unicorn to unicorn tussle.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh...
Rarity: Enough. Enough, all of you. I take your hint, but Rarity is above such nonsense. Rainbow Dash and Applejack may behave like ruffians, but Rarity conducts herself with beauty and grace.
Trixie: Ooo, what's the matter? Afraid you'll get a hair out of place in that rat's nest you call a mane?
Rarity: Oh, it. Is. On! You may think you're tough with all of your so-called powers, but there's more to magic than your brutish ways. A unicorn needs to be more than just muscle. A unicorn needs to have style.
Audience: Ooh!
Rarity: A unicorn is not a unicorn without grace and beauty.
Spike: Rarity won't let Trixie get the best of her! She's strong, she's beautiful, she's—
Audience: [gasps]
Rarity: Quick! I need a mirror! Get me a mirror! What did she do to my hair? I know she did something terrible to my hair!
Twilight Sparkle: Nothing.
Rainbow Dash: It's fine.
Applejack: It's gorgeous.
Spike: It's green. What?
Rarity: Ugh, no. Green hair! Not green hair! [cries] Such an awful, awful color! [cries]
Golden Harvest: Well, I never!
Spike: Well Twilight, guess it's up to you. Come on, show her what you're made of.
Twilight Sparkle: What do you mean? I'm nothing special.
Spike: Yes, you are! You're better than her!
Twilight Sparkle: I'm not better than anyone.
Trixie: Hah! You think you're better than the Great and Powerful Trixie? You think you have more magical talent? Well, come on, show Trixie what you've got. Show us all.
Twilight Sparkle: Who, me? I'm just your run-of-the-mill citizen of Ponyville. No powerful magic here. I, uh... I think I hear my laundry calling. Sorry, gotta go.
Spike: Twilight?
Trixie: Ha! Once again, the Great and Powerful Trixie has proven herself to be the most amazing unicorn in all of Equestria. Huh, was there ever any doubt?

Snips: Here's your smoothie you asked for, with extra hay, just how you like it.
Snails: Mmm, hay.
Trixie: [sips] Yes?
Snips: Ooo, tell us another story Great and Powerful Trixie.
Snails: Yeah, tell us about how you vanquished the ursa major.
Trixie: Guh! Trixie is far too exhausted from performing feats beyond imagination. Begone with you until morning.
Snails: Oh, of course, Great and Powerful Trixie.
Snips: Anything you say. We are at your beck and call.
Trixie: Ah.
Spike: What are you two doin'?
Snips: Just bringin' the Gee an' Pee Tee a—
Spike: The what?
Snips: The Great and Powerful Trixie.
Spike: Sheesh.
Snips: Just bringin' her a smoothie.
Spike: How can you fall for her lameness? She's just a show-off. Unlike Twilight, who—
Snips: The Great and Powerful Trixie vanquished an ursa major. Can your Twilight claim that?
Spike: Oh really? Were you guys actually there?
Snips: Well, eh, uh... no, but—
Spike: But nothin'. The proof is in the pudding.
Snails: [laughs] I like pudding.
Spike: Look, unless an ursa major comes waltzing up the street for Trixie to vanquish, I am not gonna believe a word she says, and neither should you!
Snips: Hm, an ursa walkin' up the street, hey? Snails! Are you thinkin' what I'm thinkin'?
Snails: Why is it they call it a flea market when they don't really sell fleas?
Snips: Yeah, uh... oh, come on!

Spike: Twilight, would you put down that book and just listen to me?
Twilight Sparkle: Didn't you see how they hated Trixie's bragging, Spike? If I go out there and show off my magic, I run the risk of losing them as friends.
Spike: It's not the same thing, Twilight. You'll be using your magic to stand up for your friends!
Twilight Sparkle: No, Spike, it's exactly the same.
Spike: Come on, Twilight, any one of these tricks, even the teeniest, would be enough to show up Trixie.
Twilight Sparkle: I don't want to be seen as a bragger like Trixie.
[door slam, door open]
Spike: But you're the best!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh. Please, Spike, I said no!
Spike: [sighs] If that's the way you want to be, then fine.
[door slam, door open]

[spooky music and sounds]
Snips: Oh, how we gonna find an ursa major when I can't even see my own hoof in front of my face?
Snails: Hold on. [grunts]
Snips: Oh, heh. That's better.
[growl]
Snails: Yaaaah!
Snips: Yaaaah!
Ursa: [roar]

Snips: [screaming]
Spike: Hey, guys, where ya goin'?
Snails: [breathing hard]
Snips: Can't talk now.
Snails: Got a major problem!
Snips: Yeah, ursa major, to be exact.
[roar]
Spike: Huh?
Ursa: [roar]
Snips and Snails: Trixie!
Spike: Twilight!

[banging on door]
Snips and Snails: Trixie! [mingled speech]
Trixie: Trixie thought she said the Great and Powerful Trixie did not want to be disturbed!
Snips: [nervous laughter] We— We have a— a tiny problem.
Snails: Actually, it's a big one.
Trixie: What is so important that you cannot wait until morning to disturb Trixie?
[roar]
Ursa: [roar]
Trixie: [screams]
Snips and Snails: [screams]
Ursa: [roar]

Spike: Twilight! You've gotta come! Quick!
Twilight Sparkle: I already told you, Spike, I don't wanna show up Trixie!
Spike: No, you don't understand, it's—
[roar]
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, is that what I think it is?
Spike: Majorly.

Snips: Great and Powerful Trixie, you've got to vanquish the ursa.
Snails: Yeah, vanquish so we can watch.
Snips: It took a lot of trouble to get that thing here.
Trixie: Wait, you brought this here? [gasp] Are you out of your little pony minds?
Snips: But, you're the Great and Powerful Trixie.
Snails: Yeah, remember? You defeated an ursa major.
Ursa: [roar]
Trixie: Uh, okay. [gulp] Stand back.
[snake charmer music]
Trixie: Heh. Piece of cake.
[growls, snap]
Snips: Aw, come on, Trixie.
Snails: Stop goofin' around and vanquish it, eh?
Trixie: [gasp, gulp]
Snails: Well, that was a dud.
Snips: Yeah, pfft, come on! Where's all the cool explosions and smoke and stuff like earlier? You know.
[crackle]
Trixie: Uh-oh.
Ursa: [roar]
Snips, Snails, and Trixie: [screams]
Ursa: [roar]
[ponies gasp]
Ursa: [roar]
[crash]
[ponies crying in fear]
Twilight Sparkle: What's going on?
Snips: We brought an ursa to town.
Twilight Sparkle: You what!?!
Snails: Don't worry, the Great and Powerful Trixie will vanquish it.
Trixie: I can't.
Snips and Snails: What!?
Trixie: Oh, I can't, I never have. No one can vanquish an ursa major. I just made the whole story up to make me look better.
Snips and Snails: Made it up!?
Ursa: [growl] [roar]
[ponies gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: [gulp]
Ursa: [growl]
Twilight Sparkle: [groans]
[wind]
[music from broken cattails]
Ursa: [growl] [grunt] [guttural sigh]
Spike: Nice use of number sixteen.
[metallic sounds]
[water flowing]
[milking sounds and moos]
Unidentified cow: Golly, dont'cha know?
Spike: That's new.
[metallic clank]
Twilight Sparkle: [groans]
Ursa: [sucking]
[cheering]
Rainbow Dash: Unbelievable!
Spike: That was amazing!
Applejack: Heavens to Betsy! We knew you had ability, but not that much!
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sorry. Please, please don't hate me.
Rainbow Dash, Applejack, and Rarity: Hate you?
Rarity: Why, whatever do you mean, darling?
Twilight Sparkle: Well, I know how much you all hated Trixie's showing off with her magic tricks, and I just thought--
Rainbow Dash: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Magic's got nothing to do with it. Trixie's just a loudmouth.
Rarity: Most unpleasant.
Applejack: All hat and no cattle.
Twilight Sparkle: So, you don't mind my magic tricks?
Applejack: Your magic is a part of who you are, sugarcube, and we like who you are. We're proud to have such a powerful, talented unicorn as our friend.
Rainbow Dash: And after whuppin' that ursa's hind quarters, we're even prouder.
Twilight Sparkle: You are?
Rainbow Dash: Uh-huh.
Applejack: Mm-hmm.
Rarity: Mm-hmm.
Spike: Wow, Twilight, how'd you know what to do with that ursa major?
Twilight Sparkle: That's what I was doing when you came looking for me. I was so intrigued by Trixie's bragging that I was compelled to do a little reading up on them.
Spike: So it is possible to vanquish an ursa major all by yourself?
Twilight Sparkle: That wasn't an ursa najor, it was a baby, an ursa minor.
Trixie: That was just a baby?
Twilight Sparkle: And it wasn't rampaging, it was just cranky because someone woke it up.
Snips and Snails: Awww...
Spike: Well, if that was an ursa minor, then what's an ursa major like?
Twilight Sparkle: You don't wanna know.
Trixie: Huh. You may have vanquished an ursa minor, but you will never have the amazing, show-stopping ability of the Great and Powerful Trixie!
[retreating hoofbeats]
Rainbow Dash: Why, that little...
Twilight Sparkle: Just let her go. Maybe someday she'll learn her lesson. Now, about you two.
Snips: Ah [nervous laughter]. Uh, we're sorry that we woke up the ursa minor.
Snails: We just wanted to see some awesome magic.
Snips: Yeah! And the way you vanquished that ursa minor was awesome!
Snails: We deserve whatever punishment you give us.
Twilight Sparkle: For starters, you can clean up this mess. And... What do you think, Spike? Should I give them number twenty five?
Spike: Oh, twenty five! Yes! And I think I deserve it, too.
Snips and Snails: Heah?
Twilight Sparkle: I think you're right.
Snips, Snails, and Spike: Sweet!

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
I have learned a very valuable lesson about friendship: I was so afraid of being thought of as a showoff that I was hiding a part of who I am. My friends helped me realize that it's okay to be proud of your talents, and there are times when it's appropriate to show them off... Especially when you're standing up for your friends.
Spike: So, you finally admit that you're the most talented unicorn in all of Ponyville?
Twilight Sparkle: Well, yeah, but it's nothing to brag about. So, uh, how did it go with Rarity?
Spike: Eh, she didn't go for the mustache.
Twilight Sparkle: You know, Spike, that mustache has nothing to do with who you really are. Maybe you should just try being yourself.
Spike: Or... Maybe the mustache wasn't enough. Maybe if I had a mustache and a beard?
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, not this again!
Spike: Okay, imagine me with a nice, long, Fu Manchu type beard. Or maybe a goatee. Oh, no a soulpatch right on my chin!

[music]
[credits]

Fluttershy: [spits] Not too fast now, Angel bunny. You don't wanna get a tummy ache. [chuckles] You really should eat more than that, don't you think? It's not play time yet. I know you want to run, but... just three more bites. Two more bites? One more bite? Pretty please? [sighs]
Angel: [coughs]
Fluttershy: Oh, goodness. Are you okay?
Angel: [coughs]
Fluttershy: Are you coughing because there's a carrot stuck in your throat?
Angel: [coughs]
Fluttershy: Because you need some water?
Angel: [coughs loudly]
Fluttershy: [gasp] Because of that giant cloud of scary black smoke? I'll take that as a... yes.

[theme song]

[ponies conversing in the background]
Fluttershy: Help. Help! Please? Help? There's-- there's a horrible cloud of smoke. It's headed this way and--[shrieks]
Rainbow Dash: Don't be such a scaredy-pony. It's just me, future Equestria ball-bouncing record holder. Three forty six, three forty seven...
Pinkie Pie: This calls for a celebration!
Fluttershy: Oh, no, Pinkie Pie, this is no time for celebration. This is a time for panic, for--
Pinkie Pie: Ooo! I'm going to need balloons! One for every pony in Ponyville!
Fluttershy: There's-- there's smoke. And-- and where there's smoke, there's fire. And--
Pinkie Pie: Let's see, that's one, two, three, four...
Rainbow Dash: Three hundred fifty four...
Pinkie Pie: Five, six...
Rainbow Dash: Three hundred fifty five, no, wait...
Pinkie Pie: Seven.
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie! Now I have to start over.
Fluttershy: We're all going to have to start over, in a new village. 'Cause ours is gonna be--
Pinkie Pie: Hey, Rainbow Dash, wait up!
Fluttershy: Oh, please, this is an emergency. I-I need every pony to--
Twilight Sparkle: Listen up! Smoke is spreading over all of Equestria.
Ponies: What? Oh no! That's awful!
Fluttershy: That's what I've been trying to--
Twilight Sparkle: But don't worry, I've just received a letter from Princess Celestia informing me that it is not coming from a fire.
Fluttershy: Oh, thank goodness.
Twilight Sparkle: It's coming from a dragon.
Ponies: [gasp]
Fluttershy: A... d-dragon?

Applejack: What in the name of all things cinnamon swirled is a full-grown dragon doing here in Equestria?
Twilight Sparkle: Sleeping.
Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Fluttershy and Pinkie Pie: Huh?
Twilight Sparkle: According to Princess Celestia, he's taking a nap. His snoring is what's causing all this smoke.
Pinkie Pie: He should really see a doctor. That doesn't sound healthy at all.
Rarity: Well, at least he's not snoring fire. What are we meant to do about it?
Rainbow Dash: I'll tell you what we're meant to do. Give him the boot. Take that. And that!
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: We need to encourage him to take a nap somewhere else. Princess Celestia has given us this mission, and we must not fail. If we do, Equestria will be covered in smoke for the next one hundred years.
Fluttershy: [gasp]
Rarity: Hmph. Talk about getting your beauty sleep.
Twilight Sparkle: All right everypony, I need you to gather supplies quickly. We've got a long journey ahead of us. Let's meet back here in less than an hour.
Rainbow Dash: Okay, girls, you heard her. The fate of Equestria is in our hooves. Do we have what it takes?
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, and Rarity: [affirmations]
Fluttershy: Um, actually...

Rainbow Dash: Raaah!
Applejack: Yaaa!
[pop whistles]
Pinkie Pie: [laughter] Oh, I mean, grrr!
Rarity: Ewww! Much better. Onward!
Fluttershy: [squeak]
Applejack: Let's go!
Fluttershy: Um, let's... not? [squeak]

Twilight Sparkle: All right girls, listen up. I'm mapping out the fastest route, but we've all got to keep a good pace if we expect to make it up the mountain by nightfall.
Fluttershy: M-m-mountain?
Twilight Sparkle: The dragon is in that cave at the very top.
Applejack: Looks pretty cold up there.
Rainbow Dash: You bet it is. The higher you go, the chillier it gets.
Rarity: Good thing I brought my scarf.
Pinkie Pie: Ooo! Pretty!
Rainbow Dash: Heh, oh yeah. That'll keep you nice and cozy.
Fluttershy: [gulp] Um, excuse me, Twilight? I know you're busy, but...
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh. Well, we could go this way.
Fluttershy: But if I could just have a second...
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh. No, we want to avoid that.
Fluttershy: So, um, I was thinking that, um, maybe I should just stay here in Ponyville.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh-huh.
Fluttershy: Oh! Good. I'll stay here and--
Twilight Sparkle: Wait! You have to come! Your way with wild animals will surely come in handy.
Fluttershy: I don't think I--
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, and don't worry about your little friends in the meadow. Spike's got it covered while you're gone.
Spike: You can count on me! Oooh! Hey! Hey! Wait!
Fluttershy: I don't really think he's up to the task. Maybe... But... But... [whine]
Rainbow Dash: Are you sure you want Fluttershy to come along? I mean, that pony's afraid of her own shadow. She's just going to slow us down.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, she's just a little nervous. Once we get going, I'm sure she'll be fine.
Fluttershy: [squeal]
Twilight Sparkle: All right girls, move out!
Fluttershy: But... but...! [scream]

[dragon snore]
Fluttershy: [gasp]
Rainbow Dash: Whoa. What was that?
Twilight Sparkle: That is what it sounds like when a dragon snores.
Fluttershy: It-- it's so... high!
Rainbow Dash: Well, it is a mountain. I'm going to fly up there and check it out! Wah!
Applejack: Hold on, now. I think we should all go up together. Safety in numbers an all.
Rainbow Dash: Oh, all right.
Rarity: I hear the only thing that sparkles more than a dragon's scales are the jewels they use to build their nests. Ooo, if I play my cards right, I might be able to convince him to part with a few!
Pinkie (imitating a dragon): Welcome to my cave, Rarity. Care for a diamond? [roar]
[laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: Girls, this is no laughing matter! Fluttershy, you're the expert on wild creatures. What do you think the dragon will be like? Fluttershy?
Rainbow Dash: Hey! What are you waiting for? An invitation?
Pinkie Pie: Ooo, I think I have one in my bag!
[pop whistles]
Fluttershy: I-it's so... so... steep.
Rainbow Dash: Well, it is a cliff. You could just, oh, I don't know, fly up here?
Pinkie Pie: Come on, Fluttershy, you can do it. Flap those wings!
Fluttershy: Oh... okay. [soft cry]
[dragon snore]
Fluttershy: [whines]
Rainbow Dash: Augh.
Fluttershy: [soft grunts]
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, we don't have time for this. What are you doing?
Applejack: I'll need this if I'm going to take her around the mountain another way.
Rainbow Dash: [groan] Around the mountain? That's going to take them forever.
Fluttershy: [whine]
[dragon snore]
[goat bleat]
Applejack: Don't worry, Twi. We'll be there lickety-split.

Pinkie Pie: Whoo-hoo! I win again!
Rarity: Ugh. That's thirty-five games in a row. Best of seventy-one?
Applejack: [panting] We. Made. It. [panting]
Rainbow Dash: Told you it was going to take them forever.

Fluttershy: [gulp]
Twilight Sparkle: Your turn, Fluttershy.
Fluttershy: But... it's so... wide.
Twilight Sparkle: Come on, Fluttershy, we should be much farther along by now.
Applejack: You could just leap on over.
Fluttershy: I--
[dragon snore]
Fluttershy: I don't know.
Pinkie Pie: There's nothing to be afraid of. It's just a hop, skip and a jump. See?

[Pinkie Pie]
It's not very far
Just move your little rump
You can make it if you try with a hop, skip and jump


Twilight Sparkle: We don't have time for this.

[Pinkie Pie]
A hop, skip and jump,
Just move your little rump,
A hop, skip and jump,
A hop, skip and jump,
A hop, skip and jump,
A hop skip and jump,
A hop skip and jump!

Fluttershy: O-okay. Here I go. A hop.
Applejack: That's it.
Twilight Sparkle: You've got it.
Rarity: Almost there.
Fluttershy: Skip.
Twilight Sparkle: Just don't look down.
Fluttershy: [whine]
Rainbow Dash: Ugh.
Fluttershy: I guess I forgot to jump.

Twilight Sparkle: [whispers] Let's keep it down. According to my map, we're entering an avalanche zone. The smallest peep could cause a huge rock slide.
Fluttershy: An... an ava... ava...
Twilight Sparkle: Shhh!
Fluttershy: AVALA--!
[collective sigh]
[rumble]
All ponies: Avalanche! [cries]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no! Help! Ooh!
[coughing]
Applejack: Oh my! [stops coughing] Everypony okay?
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks to you I am.
Rarity: Eugh. Bu-la-la-la-la.
Pinkie Pie: Whoo-hoo! Let's do it again!
Rarity: Uh! This is why a girl always packs extra accessories. Oh, please tell me I brought the tiara that goes with this.
Rainbow Dash: Uh, think we got bigger problems than making sure our hair bows match our horseshoes.
Fluttershy: [sigh] Sorry.
Applejack: Aw, no big whoop, sugar cube.
Twilight Sparkle: Yeah, we'll just have to [sigh] climb over.

[grunts]
Fluttershy: [sigh] [whine]
Rarity: [cry]
Applejack: Wha! Wha...
Rarity: My apologies.
Rainbow Dash: Not your fault.
Fluttershy: [whimper]
Rainbow Dash: [sigh] Still think it was a good idea to bring Fluttershy along?
Twilight Sparkle: We're about to find out. We're here. Rainbow Dash, you'll use your wings to clear the smoke.
Rainbow Dash: Mm-hmm.
Twilight Sparkle: Rarity and Pinkie Pie, you'll create a diversion to distract the dragon if things get a little hairy in there.
[squeaky toy]
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack, you're ready with the apples in case he decides to attack. But it shouldn't come to that, because Fluttershy will do what she needs to do to wake him up, and between the two of us, we should be able to get him to understand why he needs to go. Is everypony ready?
[affirmatives]
Twilight Sparkle: Okay then, we're goin' in. So, what is the best way to wake up a sleeping dragon without upsetting him? Fluttershy? Oh, come on! Come on! [grunt] We have to do this! [grunt] Now! Every [grunts] second longer that dragon [grunts] sleeps is another [grunts] acre of Equestria that is covered in [grunts] smoke. Ooh!
Pinkie Pie: [laugh]
Fluttershy: I-- I-- I can't go in the cave.
Ponies: Ugh. [crash]
Rainbow Dash: Oh, great. She's scared of caves now, too.
Fluttershy: I'm not scared of caves, I'm scared of [mumble].
Applejack: What's that, sugarcube?
Fluttershy: I'm scared of [mumble].
Twilight Sparkle: What?
Fluttershy: I'm scared of dragons!
[dragon snore]
Pinkie Pie: [squeal]
[coughing]
Twilight Sparkle: But Fluttershy. You have a wonderful talent dealing with all kinds of animals.
Fluttershy: Yes, because they're not dragons.
Rainbow Dash: Oh come on! We've seen you walk right up to a horrible manticore like it was nothing.
Fluttershy: Yes, because he wasn't a dragon.
Pinkie Pie: Spike is a dragon. You're not scared of him.
Fluttershy: Yes, because he not a huge, gigantic, terrifying, enormous, teeth-gnashing, sharp-scale having, horn-wearing, smoke-snoring, could eat a pony in one bite, totally all grown-up dragon!
[dragon snore]
Fluttershy: [whimper]
Twilight Sparkle: But, if you're so afraid of dragons, why didn't you say something before we came all the way up here?
Fluttershy: I was afraid to.
Rainbow Dash: Augh.
Applejack: All of us are scared of that dragon.
Rainbow Dash: I'm not!
Applejack: Almost all of us are scared of that dragon, but we've got a job to do. So, get in there with Twilight and show her what you're made of.
Fluttershy: I-- I-- I just... can't.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Fluttershy.

Twilight Sparkle: I'm goin' in. He... probably just doesn't realize what he's doing. Right?
[ponies agree nervously]
Twilight Sparkle: Mr. Dragon.
Dragon: [rumble]
Twilight Sparkle: Excuse me.
Dragon: [rumble]
Twilight Sparkle: Mr. Dragon.
Dragon: [rumble]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, good, you're awake. Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Twilight--
Dragon: [yawn]
Twilight Sparkle: Augh! Puh! Sparkle, and my friends and I are residents here in Equestria. Ponyville, to be exact. We've come her to ask that you find another spot to take your nap. It's just that you seem to be doing an awful lot of snoring, and every time you do you send out a terrible cloud of smoke. [coughs] Equestria simply can't survive a hundred years in a dark haze. You understand, don't you?
Dragon: [stretches] [grunts]
Twilight Sparkle: So, you'll find another place to sleep? [coughs]

Twilight Sparkle: [coughs]
Dragon: [huff]
All ponies: [coughs]
Rainbow Dash: So much for [coughs] persuading him.
Applejack: Now what?
Rarity: [coughs] Obviously, this situation just calls for a little "pony charm". Allow me, girls. I'm so sorry to interrupt. [clears throat] But I couldn't possibly head back home without mentioning what handsome scales you have. And those scales have to be hidden away in some silly cave for a hundred years?
Dragon: [rumble]
Rarity: Personally, I think you should skip the snoozing and be out there, showing them off. Hmm. Obviously, I would be more than happy to keep an eye on your jewels while you're gone.
Dragon: [growl]
Rarity: [cry]

Rarity: I was this close to getting that diamond.
Twilight Sparkle: You mean... getting rid of that dragon?
Rarity: Oh, yeah... sure.
[horn]
Applejack: What in tarnation...?
Pinkie Pie: [horn]
Rarity: Darling, you look ridiculous.
Pinkie Pie: Exactly! Sharing a laugh is a sure-fire way to get someone on your side! Hi!
[crash]
Pinkie Pie: Apparently he doesn't like laughing, heh. Or sharing.
Rainbow Dash: All right, that's it. We tried persuasion, charm, whatever it is Pinkie Pie does.
Pinkie Pie: [busted horn]
Rainbow Dash: It's time to stop wasting time! I'm going in!
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow! No!
Rainbow Dash: Get! Out! [smack]
Dragon: [sneeze] [growl]
Rainbow Dash: Heh. Sorry.
Dragon: [roars]
Rainbow Dash: Who-o-o-o-o-a!
[tenpins]
Ponies: Ugh!
[roar]
[screams]
Dragon: [roar]
Ponies: [moans]
Dragon: [rumble]
Ponies: [moans]
Fluttershy: How dare you... How dare you! Listen here, mister. Just because you're big doesn't mean you get to be a bully. You may have huge teeth, and sharp scales, and snore smoke, and breathe fire. But you do not-- I repeat-- You do not! Hurt! My! Friends! You got that?
Dragon: [whimper]
Fluttershy: Well?
Dragon: But that rainbow one kicked me.
Fluttershy: And I am very sorry about that. But you're bigger than she is, and you should know better. You should also know better than to take a nap where your snoring can become a health hazard to other creatures.
Dragon: But I--
Fluttershy: Don't you 'but I' me, mister. Now what do you have to say for yourself? I said, what do you have to say for yourself?
Dragon: [whimper] [crying]
Fluttershy: There, there. No need to cry. You're not a bad dragon, you just made a bad decision. Now go pack your things. You just need to find a new place to sleep. That's all.
Ponies: [cheering]
Twilight Sparkle: You did it! I knew you could do it.

Spike: [pant] I said come back here! Ooh! How does Fluttershy put up with you furry little things?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, take a letter.
Spike: [sigh] With pleasure.
Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
I am happy to report that the dragon has departed our fair country, and that it was my good friend, Fluttershy, who convinced him to go. This adventure has taught me to never lose faith in your friends. They can be an amazing source of strength, and can help you overcome even your greatest fears.
Always your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle.
Applejack: Twilight! You gotta come see this! She's just five away from a new pony record!
Rainbow Dash: Three hundred forty-seven, three hundred forty-eight...
[roar]
Rainbow Dash: Dragon!
[goat bleat]
[laughter]
Rainbow Dash: [pants] Why are you laughing? That awful dragon is back!
Pinkie Pie: [roar]
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie, you scared me! I mean, uh, you... broke my concentration.
Fluttershy: It's okay, Rainbow Dash. Not every pony can be as brave as me. [scream]
[goat bleat]
[laughter]

[music]
[credits]

Applejack: [groans]
Rarity: Hmm. Hah! Perfect.
Applejack: [spit] Just take the broken limbs down, Rarity. Don't y'all care about nothin' other than prettifyin'?
Rarity: Somepony has to. You were making an absolute mess of the town square, Applejack.
Applejack: Yeah, well, the storm's gonna make an even bigger mess if we don't prune all these loose branches so they don't tumble down on anypony.
Rarity: I simply cannot imagine why the Pegasus ponies would schedule a dreadful downpour this evening and ruin what could have been a glorious sunny day.
Applejack: [sigh] Think more practical-like, will ya? They accidentally skipped a scheduled sprinkle last week, so we need a doozy of a downpour to make up for it, is all.
[rain pouring down]
Rarity: Oh no! My wonderfully styled mane shall be ruined!
Applejack: Ya shoulda hurried up and finished the job already.
Rarity: Oh! Ah! Oh Ph!! It's coming down too fast! Ah! Oh! Oh! Ah! Help me!
Applejack: Uh, there. Hunker down to yer heart's content whilst I finish things.
Rarity: [pant] Oh, no, no, no!
Applejack: What now?
Rarity: I prefer not to get my hooves muddy.
Applejack: Guh. There is just no pleasin' ya, is there? Everything's got to be just so.
Rarity: [scoff] Well, and how does muddying my hooves serve any useful purpose?
Applejack: Y'all wouldn't know useful if it came up and bit'cha.
Rarity: [laugh] That doesn't even make any sense.
Applejack: Does so.
Rarity: Does not.
Applejack: Does so.
Rarity: Does not.
Applejack: Does so.
Rarity: Does not.
Applejack: Does so infinity. Hah.
Rarity: Does not infinity plus one. Heh. What say we go our separate ways before one of us says something she will regret?
Applejack: I reckon y'all are gonna say something you'll regret first.
Rarity: On the contrary, I believe it shall most certainly be you who says something you will regret first.
Applejack: I'm not sayin' anythin'.
Rarity: Nor am I.
Applejack: Y'all just be on yer way, then.
Rarity: After you!
[thunder cracks]
[Applejack and Rarity yelp]
Rarity: Perhaps we should stick together for now and find some shelter.
Applejack: Uh-huh, perhaps we should. And fast.

[theme song]

Applejack: Heh. Nice and dry under here, sorta.
Rarity: Oh! Unacceptable.
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack! Rarity! Applejack! Rarity!
Applejack and Rarity: Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: Come inside girls, quick.
Applejack: Whoa, nelly. Is inside a tree really the best place to be in a lightning storm?
Twilight Sparkle: It is if you have a magical lightning rod protecting your home like I do. Come on in!
Rarity: Hah! We are most grateful for your invitation.
Applejack: Thank ya kindly for yer hospitality.
Rarity: Uh, do be a polite house guest and go wash up please, won't you?
Applejack: [grumble] If I gotta spend one more second with that fussbudget Rarity today, I can't be held responsible for what I'm gonna do.
Twilight Sparkle: Some storm, huh? The Pegasus ponies sure have outdone themselves this time. I hope you and Applejack don't have any trouble getting home.
Rarity: It may indeed be a problem.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, you're welcome to stay if need be. Spike is away in Canterlot on royal business. I'm home all alone tonight. [gasp] You and Applejack should totally sleep over! We'll have a slumber party! I've always wanted one of those.
Rarity: Oh! Uh, goodness. Uh, I do believe I have another engagement scheduled for this evening that completely slipped my mind until just now. [nervous laugh] Ah, silly me, I can't possibly stay here all night -- with Applejack.
Rarity: Slumber 101: All You've Ever Wanted to Know About Slumber Parties But Were Afraid to Ask.
Twilight Sparkle: My own personal copy. It's a fantastic reference guide. You should see the table of contents. I've been waiting for a chance to use it, and today is the day! This is gonna be so great!
Rarity: Yes, uh, great. [nervous laughter]

Applejack: [gasp] What in tarnation... Now wait just a goll-darn minute. Ya make me wash the mud off my hooves, but it's okay for y'all to have mud all over yer faces?
Rarity: Silly! This is called a mud mask. It's to refresh and rejuvenate your complexion.
Twilight Sparkle: We're giving each other makeovers! Eee-hee! We have to do it, it says so in the book.
Applejack: Slumber 101: Everything You... Oh hey, heh, would'ja look at the time. I gotta skidaddle on home quick. I'm powerful late for, uh, fer somethin'. Uh, g'night. [cry] Or maybe I'll sit here for a spell.
Twilight Sparkle: Hurray slumber party!
Applejack: Blahch. What in the world is this for?
Rarity: [sigh] To reduce the puffiness around one's eyes, of course.
Applejack: Puffiness-schmuffiness! That's good eatin'!(Loud chewing)
Twilight Sparkle: Hee-hee! Isn't this exciting? We'll do everything by the book, and that will make my slumber party officially fun.
Rarity: Did you hear that, Applejack? You certainly would not want to do anything that would ruin Twilight's very first slumber party, would you?
Applejack: Of course not, 'n you wouldn't either, I reckon?
Rarity: So do we have an agreement?
Applejack: You betcha. [spit]
Rarity: Oh! Gross! You know, there's messy and there's just plain rude.
Applejack: You know, there's fussy, 'n there's just plain gettin' on my nerves.
Rarity: Fortunately, I can get along with any pony, no matter how difficult she may be.
Applejack: Oh yeah? Well, I'm the get-alongin'ist pony yer ever gonna meet.
Rarity: That's not even a word.
Twilight Sparkle: This is going to be the bestest slumber party ever! Yay!
Applejack and Rarity: Yay.

Rarity: So, how are you getting along over there, Applejack?
Applejack: Just fine, Rarity.
Twilight Sparkle: This is so awesome! [giggle] Makeovers, check. Ooh, it says here we have to tell ghost stories. Who wants to go first?
Applejack: Me! I'd like to tell y'all the terrifying tale of the prissy ghost who drove everypony crazy with her unnecessary neatness. Oo-oo! I'm sure y'all are familiar with that one?
Rarity: Never heard of it, but I have a much better one. It's the horrifying story of the messy, inconsiderate ghost who irritated every pony within a hundred miles! Oo-oo!
Applejack: That's not a real story. You made it up.
Rarity: It is a ghost story, they're all made up.
[screams]
Twilight Sparkle: I've got one! This story is called The Legend of The Headless Horse. It was a dark and stormy night, just like this one. And three ponies were having a slumber party, just like this one...

Twilight Sparkle: ...and just when the last pony thought she was safe, there, standing right behind her, just inches away was -- The Headless Horse!
Applejack and Rarity: [gasp] [scream]
Twilight Sparkle: Ghost story, check. Now, who wants s'mores?

Rarity: Then you place one marshmallow on the top of the chocolate and be sure it's centered -- that's critical -- and then carefully put another perfectly square graham cracker on the top. And done. Ta-da! [laugh]
Twilight Sparkle: Ooo!
Applejack: Nah, ya just eat 'em. [munch] Mmm-mmm! [belch]
Rarity: [sigh] You could at least say excuse me.
Applejack: Aw, I was just about to, but you interrupted me. Pardon.
Twilight Sparkle: S'mores, check. Now the next item of fun we have to do is Truth or Dare.
Rarity: I dare Applejack to do something carefully and neatly for a change.
Applejack: Oh yeah? Well I dare Rarity ta lighten up and stop obsessin' over every last little detail, for a change.
Rarity: I think the truth of the matter is that some pony could stand to pay a little more attention to details.
Applejack: And I think the truth is some pony oughta quit with her fussin' so the rest of us can get things done.
Twilight Sparkle: Um, I don't think this is how the game's supposed to work. You have to give an honest answer to any question or do whatever any pony dares you to do.
Applejack: I dares you to step outside and let your precious, tidy mane get ruined again.
Rarity: [gasps]
Twilight Sparkle: You have to. It's the rule.
Applejack: Hah!
Rarity: Fine! [cries]
Applejack: [snickers] [laughs]
Rarity: Okay. I dare Applejack to play dress-up in a frou-frou, glittery, lacey outfit.
Applejack: [gasp] Happy?
Rarity: Very. [smirk]
Twilight Sparkle: Um, do I ever get a turn?
Applejack: I dare ya to enter the next rodeo when it comes to town.
Rarity: I dare you not to enter the next rodeo that comes to town.
Applejack: I dare ya to not comb your mane a hundred times before bed.
Rarity: And I dare you to comb yours just once.
Twilight Sparkle: I, uh, I think we should check off Truth or Dare and move on. Let's see what our next fun-fun-fun thing is, shall we? Hm, what does this mean? Pillow fight?
Rarity: Oh, please. I am not at all interested in participating in something so crude. Oh! It! Is! On! [grunt]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, I get it! Pillow, fight! Fun! Ugh. Ah. Uh, girls? Maybe we should take it down a notch?
Applejack: I will if she will.
Rarity: [gasp] She started it.
Twilight Sparkle: [spit] Maybe we should just call it a night and get some sleep?

Rarity: Keep your muddy hooves on your side of the bed.
Applejack: My hooves ain't muddy.
Rarity: They were. There might still be a little on them.
Applejack: There ain't. See?
Rarity: Eww!
Applejack: Now who's bein' inconsiderate?
Rarity: I have to make the bed again so the blanket will be right. Get up.
Applejack: Hey!
Rarity: Ah ah ah! You'll ruin it. You have to do it like this. Mm, uh, ooh, u-u-u-uh, uh, ah.
Applejack: Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Geronimo!
Rarity: Hey!
Applejack: Ah.
Rarity: You did that on purpose.
Applejack: Um, yeah?
Rarity: Get up so I can fix it again.
Applejack: Can't hear ya, I'm asleep. [snore]
Rarity: M-mmm!
Applejack: I ain't budgin'.
Rarity: You will if you want any blankets.
Applejack: Give it back!
Rarity: I will not!
Applejack: Yes, you will!
Rarity: Won't!
Applejack:: Will!
Rarity: Won't!
Applejack:: Will!
Rarity: Won't!
Applejack:: Will!
Twilight Sparkle: Enough! It says right here that the number one thing you're supposed to do at a slumber party is have fun, and thanks to you two I can't check that off!
Applejack: I've been tryin' my darndest to get along.
Rarity: No, it is I who have been trying my best.
Applejack: No, it was me.
Rarity: No, it was I.
Applejack: Me!
Rarity: I!
Twilight Sparkle: I hope you're happy, both of you. You've ruined my very first slumber party. The makeover, the s'mores, Truth or Dare, the pillow fight... I mean, is there anything else that could possibly go wrong?
[lightning strikes]
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry I asked.

Applejack, Rarity and Twilight: [gasp]
Applejack: Ya see? That's why we needed to take down all those loose branches in town, not spiffy 'em up.
Rarity: But I--
Applejack: Outta my way, missy! Time's a-wastin'.
Rarity: Wait! Stop! Don't!
Applejack: No waitin'! No stoppin'! Doin'! And that, my friends, is what we call gettin' 'er done.
Rarity: [cry]
Twilight Sparkle: [cry]
[crash]
Rarity: [cries] I tried to tell you it would come crashing down in here.
Applejack: Well, ya should'a tried harder. [sigh] I'm mighty sorry, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: It's... Well, it's not okay. There's a giant tree branch in the middle of my bedroom, and the book doesn't say anything about having a giant tree branch at your slumber party. Or at least I haven't found that entry yet. Ooh... ah!
Applejack: What in tarnation are y'all doin' over there?
Rarity: Cleaning up this mess some pony made. Who was that again? Oh, right, that's you.
Applejack: We gotta do somethin'!
Twilight Sparkle: Baking... BFFs... Brothers... There's nothing in here about branches.
Applejack: [grunts] Rarity, for pony's sake, stop sweatin' the small stuff and help me get rid of this thing! I said hussle over here and help me! Look, I'm sorry, alright?
Rarity: What was that?
Applejack: I said I'm sorry! I should'a listened to you when you noticed where this here branch would end up. Yer annoyin' attention to detail would'a saved us from this whole mess. But right now, ya need to stop bein' so dang fussy pickin' up all the little things and help me move the one big thing in here that actually matters! Please!
Rarity: Uh. Uh, but I'll get all icky.
Applejack: Consarnit! What the... eh... you... I mean, yes, ickiness is often a side effect of hard work. But y'all need to get over it, on account I just can't fix this mess I made myself. I need your help.
Rarity: Oh. Let's do this.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, they do have a section about backyard slumber parties. Is that what we're doing right now? Does this count as camping?
Rarity: [grunt]
Applejack: [grunt]
Rarity: U-ugh. Oh, I look awful.
Applejack: Better?
Rarity: Hmph, thanks.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, pretty! Where did these come from? They're not in the book either.

Applejack, Rarity and Twilight: [laughter]
Applejack: Is it bigger than a barn?
Twilight Sparkle: [laugh] Nope.
Rarity: Is it smaller than a saddle?
Twilight Sparkle: [laugh] No! Only three of your twenty questions left!
Applejack: [sigh] We're never gonna guess what y'er thinkin' of, it could be anythin'.
Rarity: Are we getting warmer?
Twilight Sparkle: Why? Is it too cold in here for you? I can turn up the heat.
Applejack: She means are we gettin' any closer with our guesses?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh! No. And that technically counted as a question, so only two more left!
Applejack: Is it... a six-legged pony with a purple polka-dotted mane and shootin' stars comin' out of his eyes?
Rarity: Who flies through the air all over the world to hide magic, sparkly eggs?
Twilight Sparkle: That's it!
Applejack and Rarity: It is?
Twilight Sparkle: No. [chuckle] It's that. But it was just so nice to see you two finally getting along, I wanted you to be able to win together.
Applejack and Rarity: [laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: See? We could have been having fun like this all along.
Applejack: If only somepony hadn't been so persnickety.
Rarity: Well, maybe she wouldn't have been if somepony else hadn't been so sloppy.
Applejack: Sorry for being such a pain in the patootie.
Rarity: Oh, no, I'm sure I was much worse.
Applejack: That's kind of ya to say, but I'm the one who's sorry.
Rarity: Oh, I'm much more sorry than you are.
Applejack: Ugh. Are not.
Rarity: Are too.
Applejack: Are not!
Rarity: Are too.
Applejack: Are not.
Rarity: Are too.
Applejack and Rarity: [laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: I declare my first slumber party a success!
Applejack and Rarity: [cheers]
Twilight Sparkle: Have fun, check.
Applejack and Rarity: [laughter]

Rarity: Now take two steps to your left. Uh, no, my left.
Applejack: Whu, which is it? [crash] Whoa! That mess is your fault, not mine. [laughter]
Rarity: [laughter] Sorry.

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
It's hard to believe that two ponies who seem to have so little in common could ever get along. But I found out that if you embrace each other's differences, you'd just might be surprised to discover a way to be friends after all.

Twilight Sparkle: So, who's up for another slumber party tomorrow night? Ugh. How about a week from Thursday? Oh, how about two weeks from Saturday? A month from now?
Applejack and Rarity: [laughter]

[music]
[credits]

Twilight Sparkle: Wow, what a gorgeous day!
Spike: Rainbow Dash must have gotten up early for once and cleared all the clouds away.
Twilight Sparkle: I bet all of Ponyville is going to be out enjoying the sunshine. What? Where is everypony?
Spike: Is it some sort of pony holiday?
Twilight Sparkle: Not that I know of.
Spike: Does my breath stink? [belch]
Twilight Sparkle: Not more than usual.
Spike: Is it... zombies?!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh... not very likely.
Spike: Not likely... but possible?
Pinkie Pie: Psst! Twilight! Spike! Come here! Come! Here! Hurry! Before she gets you!
Twilight Sparkle: [groans]
Spike: Who?! The zombie pony?
Pinkie Pie: Z-Zombie pony?!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! There are no zombie ponies. Pinkie, what are you doing here alone in the dark?
Pinkie Pie: I'm not alone in the dark.
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Okay then, what are you all doing here in the dark?
Applejack: We're hidin' from her!
[All gasp]

[theme song]

Apple Bloom: Did you see her Twilight? Did you see... Zecora?
Applejack: Apple Bloom! I told you never to say that name.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, I saw her glance this way...
Pinkie Pie: Glance evilly this way.
Twilight Sparkle: ... And then a bunch of you flip out for no good reason.
Applejack: No good reason? You call protectin' yer kin no good reason? Why, as soon as my sister saw Zecora ridin' into town, she started shakin' in her lil' horseshoes.
Apple Bloom: [shakily] Did not!
Applejack: So I swept her up and brought her here.
Apple Bloom: I walked here myself!
Applejack: For safe keepin'.
Apple Bloom: Applejack, I'm not a baby! I can take care of myself!
Applejack: Not from that creepy Zecora.
Fluttershy: She's mysterious.
Rainbow Dash: Sinister.
Pinkie Pie: And spoooooky!
Twilight Sparkle: [groans]
[Everyone but Twilight gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: Will you cut that out?
Rarity: Just look at those stripes! So garish!
Twilight Sparkle: She's a zebra.
Everyone but Twilight: A what!?
Twilight Sparkle: A zebra, and her stripes aren't a fashion choice Rarity, they're what she was born with.
Rarity: [faints]
Applejack: Born where? I've never seen a pony like that in these parts, 'cept... her!
Twilight Sparkle: Well, she's probably not from here, and she's not a pony. My books say that zebras come from a far away land. But I've never seen her in Ponyville. Where does she live?
Applejack: That's just it, she lives in... the Everfree Forest!
[Crash that sounds like a thunderclap]
Twilight Sparkle: Spike!
Spike: Uh, sorry.
Applejack: The Everfree Forest just ain't natural. The plants grow...
Fluttershy: Animals care for themselves...
Rainbow Dash: And the clouds move...
Applejack, Fluttershy, and Rainbow Dash: All on their own!
Rarity: [faints]
Pinkie Pie: And that wicked enchantress Zecora lives there doing her evil... stuff! She's so evil I even wrote a song about her!
Rainbow Dash: Here we go. [sigh]...

[Pinkie Pie]
She's an evil enchantress
She does evil dances
And if you look deep in her eyes
She'll put you in trances
Then what will she do?
She'll mix up an evil brew
Then she'll gobble you up
In a big tasty stew
Soooo... Watch out!

Twilight Sparkle: Wow. Catchy.
Pinkie Pie: It's a work in progress.
Twilight Sparkle: This is all just a lot of gossip and rumors. Now tell me; what exactly have you actually seen Zecora do?
Rainbow Dash: Well... Once a month, she comes into Ponyville.
Twilight Sparkle: [dramatically] Oooooh.
Rarity: Then, she lurks by the stores.
Twilight Sparkle: [dramatically] Oh, my.
Fluttershy: And then, she digs at the ground.
Twilight Sparkle: [dramatically] Good gracious! [normal tone] Okay, I'm sorry. But how is any of this bad? Maybe she comes to town to visit?
Apple Bloom: Yeah! Maybe she's just tryin' to be neighborly.
Twilight Sparkle: And maybe she's not lurking by the stores, maybe she's going to them, lurk free, to do some shopping?
Apple Bloom: Yeah! Everypony likes to shop. You know what I think?
Applejack: Apple Bloom! Hush and let the big ponies talk.
Apple Bloom: [under breath] I am a big pony!
Rainbow Dash: W-what about digging at the ground? You've got to admit that's weird.
Fluttershy: What if she's digging for innocent creatures?
[Pinkie Pie sings "Evil Enchantress" in the background]
Twilight Sparkle: I am sure there is an explanation for everything Zecora does. And if anypony here were actually brave enough to approach her, she would find out the truth.
Apple Bloom: Well, I'm brave enough; I'm gonna find out myself. [gasps]

Twilight Sparkle: You ponies are being ridiculous!
Pinkie Pie: Well, I heard that Zecora eats hay.
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie, I eat hay; you eat hay!
Pinkie Pie: Yeah, but I heard it's the evil way she eats hay.
Applejack: Hey! Where's Apple Bloom?
Fluttershy: The door's open.
Rarity: She went outside!
Rainbow Dash: And Zecora's still out there.
Applejack: [sigh] That silly lil' filly! I told her to stay put!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, you stay here in case Apple Bloom comes back.
Spike: Will do!

Apple Bloom: [gulps]
Applejack: Apple Bloom?
Apple Bloom: [gasp]
Applejack: You get back here right now!
Zecora: Beware! Beware, you pony folk! Those leaves of blue are not a joke!
Applejack: Y-you keep your creepy mumbo-jumbo to yourself, ya hear?
[Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Pinkie Pie, and Rarity speak over each other against Zecora]
Twilight Sparkle: [sighs] Oh brother.
Zecora : Beware! Beware!
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, back at ya, Zecora! You and your lame curse are the ones who better beware!
Applejack: And you! Why couldn't you just listen to yer big sister?
Apple Bloom: I...I...
Applejack: Who knows what kind of nasty curse Zecora could have just put on you?
Pinkie Pie: Just like in my song! [Starts singing a shorter version of "Evil Enchantress"]
Twilight Sparkle: You guys, there's no such thing as curses!
Rainbow Dash: Well, that's interesting to hear coming from Miss Magic Pants herself.
Twilight Sparkle: My magic, real magic, comes from within. It's a skill you're born with. Curses are artificial, fake magic. It's conjured with potions and incantations; all smoke and mirrors meant to scare. But curses have no real power, they're just an old pony tale.
Applejack: Just you wait, Twilight. You're gonna learn that some pony tales really are true.

[dream sequence]
Pinkie Pie: She's an evil enchantress, she does evil dances!
Zecora: Beware! Beware!
Pinkie Pie: If you look deep in her eyes, she will put you in trances!
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, was that supposed to scare us?!
Rarity: Wicked, wicked zebra!
Fluttershy: ... it's a curse.
Pinkie Pie: Then what will she do?
Applejack: Just you wait, Twilight; some pony tales really are true.
Pinkie Pie: Then she'll gobble you up in a big tasty stew! Soooo... Watch out!
Zecora: [evil laugh]

[rooster crowing]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh... what a dream... Curses, schmurses. Whoa! [chuckle] Maybe Zecora cursed my hair. [Laughs nervously and then gasps] Or she cursed my horn!

Twilight Sparkle: No no no no no! None of these books have a cure! Ugh! There has to be a real reason for this! An illness? An allergy?!
Spike: A curse!
Twilight Sparkle: I said a real reason. Something that points to something real.
Spike: How about this one?
Twilight Sparkle: "Supernaturals"? Spike, the word supernatural refers to things like ghosts and spirits and zombies, which are as make-believe as curses. This book is just a bunch of hooey!
Spike: But what if you're wrong, Twilight? What if this really is a-
Pinkie Pie: Ah pfurse!
Spike: A purse? How could it be a purse?
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie? What happened?
Pinkie Pie: Pee pah Zthecora! Sthe put a cursthe on me!
Spike: Hey, say it, don't spray it, Pinkie!
Rainbow Dash: [thud] Ow! [thud] Oh! She's [thud] trying to say-ow!- Zecora [thud]-oh!-[crash] she slapped us all with a-ow- curse!
Rarity: I'm afraid I have to agree. [Blows hair out of her face]
[Spike and Twilight yell in surprise]
Applejack: [high pitched voice] I hate to say I told ya so, Twilight, but I told ya so!
[Spike and Twilight gasp]
Applejack: It's a curse, I tells ya!
Twilight Sparkle: But Fluttershy... seems just fine!
Rarity: Yes, there doesn't seem to be a thing wrong with her.
Twilight Sparkle: Fluttershy? Are you okay? Is there something wrong with you? Would you care to tell us? So... you're not going to tell us? Yes you're not, or yes you will?
Applejack: Good gravy, girl! What's wrong with you?!
Fluttershy: [deep male voice] I don't want to talk about it.
[Spike snorts, then bursts out laughing]
Spike: This is hilarious! [laughs] Look at all of you! We got: Hairity, Rainbow Crash, Spitty Pie, Apple Teeny, Flutterguy, and... uh... I got nothin'... Twilight Sparkle. I mean seriously, I can't even work with that.
Twilight Sparkle: [Sarcastic laughter] This is no joke, Spike. Now start looking for more books so I can find a cure!
Spike: [groan]
Rainbow Dash: [groans] I think we'll find a cure to this curse at Zecora's place!
Twilight Sparkle: It's not a curse!
Applejack: I agree with Dash! We'll go to Zecora's and force her to remove this hex!
Twilight Sparkle: It's not a hex either!
[Everyone but Apple Bloom and Spike shouting at once]

Apple Bloom: This is all my fault. If I hadn't followed Zecora in the first place, none of this would have happened. I just gotta fix this.
Applejack: Now where does she think she's goin' this time?
Rainbow Dash: I don't care what you say, Twilight. It's time to pony up and confront Zecora. Come on, girls. Are you with me?
Pinkie Pie: Ah am-pft!
Rarity: And I as well.
Fluttershy: Uh, I don't know. Seems awfully dangerous.
Spike: [giggle]
Rainbow Dash: How about you, Applejack? Applejack?
Pinkie Pie: Pf-she's gone-pft!
Rarity: Aah! Or somepony stepped on her!
Twilight Sparkle: ... or sat on her?
Rainbow Dash: Rarity's hair!
Rarity: Oh! OH! Pinkie, what are you doing? Ah, really. Aah! You ever hear of personal space?
Pinkie Pie: Nopthe.
Twilight Sparkle: Apple Bloom is gone too!
Rainbow Dash: I bet they went after Zecora.
Twilight Sparkle: Well we better go find them. Come on girls, let's go.
Rarity: [grunt] Oh dear. Oh, this is so unseemly. Auuuaah!
Rainbow Dash: Hey, a little help here?
Fluttershy: Oopsie! Sorry.
Rainbow Dash: [crash] OW!
Fluttershy: Uh... Spike? Are you coming?
Spike: Nope! Uh... gotta stay her and look for a cure. [gasp] Twilight Flopple!

Applejack: Stop right there! Turn around right now, missy!
Apple Bloom: No.
Applejack: No?! You can't ignore a direct order from your big sister!
Apple Bloom: Hehehe. Sorry, Applejack, but I'm the big sister now.
Applejack: Apple Bloom, you come back here right this instant! I'm gonna tell Big McIntosh on you! Aw, pony feathers.

Twilight Sparkle: C'mon girls. We've got to get to Zecora's. Hurry!
Rarity: Ooh... Ahaha. Easier said than done.
Rainbow Dash: Hey, wait for me! [screaming and owing]
Applejack: Rainbow! Thank Celestia! There's no time to lose! I need to get to Zecora's pronto! Giddyup pony!
Rainbow Dash: Ex-CUSE me?
Applejack: YEEE-HAW!
Rainbow Dash: What the...
Applejack: No, Rainbow Dash. Other way!

Rarity: Oh. I look horrible!
Pinkie Pie: Plis place plooks horrible!
Rarity: Oh my. That place really does look horrible. Nice decorations, if you like creepy!
[Ponies gasp]
Zecora: [talks in her native language]
Pinkie Pie: Sthe sthtole my sthong! Shthe shtole mm mm!
Rarity: She stole your song?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh Pinkie. Doesn't sound anything like your song.
Pinkie Pie: Ah. Hmm... Pbth! [whimper]
Fluttershy: [sigh]

She's an evil enchantress
And she does evil dances
And if you look deep in her eyes
She will put you in trances
Then what would she do?
She'll mix up an evil brew
Then she'll gobble you up
In a big tasty stew
Soooo... Watch out.

Rarity: You saw those terrible things. Now do you believe us Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: Scary looking masks, confusing incantations, and a great big bubbling cauldron? [sigh] Everything is pointing to Zecora being... bad. Or... what if Zecora is just making soup?
Zecora: Mmm! The perfect temperature for ponies, I presume. Now, where is that little Apple Bloom?
Twilight Sparkle: Or... what if she's making Apple Bloom soup?!

Twilight Sparkle: What if she's making Apple Bloom soup?
[All ponies scream]
Applejack: I'm comin' for ya, Apple Bloom!
Rainbow Dash: Aaah!
Zecora: [Native language]
Applejack: Whoa there. Easy, Rainbow Crash.
Zecora: Oh. [Native language]
Rainbow Dash: [screams]
Zecora: [Native language]
Twilight Sparkle: What have you done with Apple Bloom?
Zecora: No! No! [Native language]
Applejack: [grunt]
Rainbow Dash: Ahh!
Zecora: Ponies! What is this you... [Rainbow Dash screams] No! You know not what you do! You've gone and spilled my precious brew!
Twilight Sparkle: We're onto you Zecora. I didn't want to believe that you cursed us, but the evidence is overwhelming!
Rarity: You made me look ridiculous.
Fluttershy: You made me sound ridiculous!
Pinkie Pie: [incoherent] You made me speak ridiculous!
Twilight Sparkle: You ruined my horn!
Zecora: How dare you! You destroy my home, destroy my work. Then rudely accuse me of being a jerk?
Rainbow Dash: You put this curse on us, now you're gonna uncurse us.
Zecora: It is unwise to venture down this road. Your actions will make my anger explode!
Twilight Sparkle: Where is Apple Bloom!?
Apple Bloom: Zecora! I think I found all the things ya asked for. What in Ponyville is goin' on here?
Applejack: [gasp] Apple Bloom! You're okay!
Apple Bloom: Why wouldn't I be?
Twilight Sparkle: Because Zecora is an evil enchantress who cursed us and was gonna cook you up into soup!
Zecora and Apple Bloom: [laughs]
Apple Bloom: Oh Twilight. Did those silly fillies finally get in yer head? You know there's no such thing as a curse.
Twilight Sparkle: Apple Bloom, sweetie. You can't just stand there and tell me this isn't a curse.
Apple Bloom: This isn't a curse.
Zecora: If you will remember back, the words I spoke were quite exact. [flashback: Beware, beware you pony folk. Those leaves of blue are not a joke.]
Apple Bloom: It was a warnin'. About that blue plant. It's called Poison Joke.
Zecora: That plant is much like poison oak. But its results are like a joke.
Applejack: What in the hay does that mean?
Zecora: It means this plant does not breed wrath. Instead this plant just wants a laugh.
Applejack: ... Will somepony please talk normal?
Twilight Sparkle: I think what she's saying is that when we ran in to save Apple Bloom, we ran into the poison joke. All our problems are just little jokes that played on us.
Applejack: LITTLE JOKES?! Very funny.
Rainbow Dash: Ok, fine. But what about the cauldron?
Fluttershy: And the chanting?
Rarity: And the creepy decor?
Zecora: Treasures of the native land where I am from. This one speaks 'hello', and this 'welcome'.
Rarity: Not welcoming at all, if you ask me.
Zecora: The words I chanted were from olden times. Something you call a nursery rhyme.
Twilight Sparkle: But the cauldron... The Apple Bloom soup?
Apple Bloom: Looky here Twilight. That pot of water wasn't for me, it was for all these herbal ingredients. The cure for poison joke is a simple old-natural remedy. You just gotta take a bubble bath!
Twilight Sparkle: But I tried to find a cure in all my books and couldn't find anything. What book has this natural remedy?
Zecora: Here is the book, you see? Sad that you lack it in your library.
Twilight Sparkle: Actually, I do have this book, but I didn't look inside because the title was so... Weird. Supernaturals: Natural Remedies and Cure-alls That Are Simply Super. I...I... I'm so sorry, Zecora. I had the answer the whole time, if only I had bothered to look inside.
Zecora: [chuckle] Maybe next time you will take a second look, and not judge the cover of the book.
Apple Bloom: Hahaha.
Twilight Sparkle: Zecora? Would you be kind enough to mix up another batch of the herbal bath?
Zecora: Mix it up I certainly will. Yet I am missing an herb from Ponyville.
Apple Bloom: But whenever Zecora comes to town, all the shops are mysteriously closed.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, well... I think we can help you with that.

Daisy: Look Rose! How awful!
Rose: The wicked enchantress has cursed them all.
Lily Valley: The horror, the horror!
[Ponies panicking]
Daisy: Run, ponies! Run!
Twilight Sparkle: Daisy, we need to talk.

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
My friends and I all learned an important lesson this week: Never judge a book by its cover. Someone may look unusual, or funny, or scary. But you have to look past that and learn who they are inside. Real friends don't care what your "cover" is; it's the "contents" of a pony that count. And a good friend, like a good book, is something that will last forever.

Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle

Lotus Blossom: Miss Zecora, I would love to get the recipe for this bath. It's simply luxurious!
Apple Bloom: Applejack! Hey, where's Applejack?!
[Ponies exclaiming]
Applejack: I'm right here, little sis. I ain't tiny no more!
Rarity: Oh! I have never felt so lovely in all my life!
Pinkie Pie: Oh, my gosh! I never realized how horrible it is not to be able to talk. I mean, I love talking so much, and when I couldn't talk anymore, my tongue was all 'ehhhh'! It was the worst! Don't you agree, Fluttershy?
Fluttershy: [normal voice] ... Yes.
[All ponies laugh]

[music]
[credits]

Fluttershy: La, la la, la la, la la, la la. Thank you little squirrel, but remember: these flowers are for Princess Celestia. Only the prettiest ones will do. La, la la, la la, la la, la la.
Parasprite: [chirp]
Fluttershy: Gah!
Parasprite: [chirp]
Fluttershy: Hello, little guy. I've never seen anything like you before.
Parasprite: [sniff]
Fluttershy: Oh, are you hungry? Here you go. [gasp] I guess you were hungry.
Parasprite: [purr]
Fluttershy: You're the cutest thing ever! I can't wait to show you to my friends.

[theme song]

Twilight Sparkle: Oh! Hurry up, Spike! This place isn't gonna clean itself.
Spike: It also didn't mess itself up.
Twilight Sparkle: Princess Celestia will be here tomorrow!
Spike: I thought this was just an unofficial casual visit.
Twilight Sparkle: There's nothing casual about a visit from royalty. I want this place to be spotless, and you've barely made a dent in the clutter.
Spike: Maybe you should, ugh, start reading them one at a time--wooah hoaw! Aw.
Twilight Sparkle: Everything's got to be perfect. No time for fooling around.
Spike: You know, this would be an awful lot easier if there weren't two of us here getting under each other's feet.
Twilight Sparkle: Great idea. You clean, I'll go see how everyone else's preparations are coming.
Spike: Or maybe I should... [groan]

[ponies chatter]
Twilight Sparkle: What happened to the rest of her name?
Golden Harvest: We couldn't fit it all in.
Twilight Sparkle: You can't hang a banner that says "Welcome Princess Celest". Take it down and try again.

Twilight Sparkle: That looks perfect. Keep up the good work.

Twilight Sparkle: Hello, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. How's the banquet coming?
Mrs. Cake: Uh...it would be coming a little better if...
Pinkie Pie: Mmm... [slurp]
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie! What are you doing? Those sweets are supposed to be for the princess.
Pinkie Pie: I know. That's why I'm tasting them. Somepony needs to make sure that everything is tasty enough to touch the royal tongue, and I, Pinkie Pie, declare that these treats are fit for a king, or a queen, or a princess.
Fluttershy: Twilight, Pinkie, you won't believe... oh, I'm sorry. Uh, am I interrupting?
Pinkie Pie: No, not at all. Come on in and make yourself at home. [slurp] What's going on, Fluttershy?
Fluttershy: You won't believe what I found at the edge of the Everfree Forest. Come on out, little guy. It's okay.
Parasprite: [purr] [chirp]
Fluttershy: [gasp] Three?
Twilight Sparkle: They're amazing. What are they?
Fluttershy: I'm not sure. I'm also not sure where these other two came from.
Twilight Sparkle: I'll take one off your hooves. I've never seen anything so... adorable. Besides, it'll be nice to have a companion for Spike so he won't bother me so much while I'm studying.
Fluttershy: Pinkie, do you want the other one?
Pinkie Pie: UGH! A parasprite? Are you kidding?
Fluttershy: Ugh?
Twilight Sparkle: A para-what?
Fluttershy: How could you not like...
Pinkie Pie: Ugh. Now I gotta go find a trombone.
Twilight Sparkle: A what?
Pinkie Pie: A trombone, you know: [trombone imitation]
Twilight Sparkle: Ahhh, typical Pinkie.
Parasprite: [purr]

Rarity: Stand still, Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh, I caaan't, I need to flyyy! This is waaay too boring for me.
Rarity: Do you want to look nice for Princess Celestia or not?
Twilight Sparkle: Wow. Rarity, those outfits are gorgeous.
Rarity: Mmhmm. Thank you, Twilight. Nice to know someone appreciates my talents.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh, sooo boooring.
Parasprites: [chirp]
Rarity: Huh?
Rainbow Dash: What's that sound, Twilight?
Parasprite: [several chirps]
Rainbow Dash: Wow, what are they?
Twilight Sparkle: The better question is, where did they come from? I only had one a minute ago.
Rainbow Dash: Uh, I'll take one.
Rarity: Me too, oh, they're perfect.
Pinkie Pie: Does anypony know where I can find an accordion?
Rainbow Dash: [baby noises]
Pinkie Pie: Girls! Hello! This is important. Durgh! Thanks a lot.

Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] The decorations, the banquet, I really hope everything comes together in time for tomorrow.
Spike: [snore]
Parasprite: [baby noises]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, [yawn] what's there to worry about?

Parasprites: [loud baby noises]
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Wake up! What happened?
Spike: Huh? Whaaa! What's going on?
Parasprite: [chirp]
Twilight Sparkle: Where did they come from?
Spike: I don't know. The little guy got hungry in the night, so I gave him a snack, but... I have no idea where these others came from. Oh no! They're messing up all my hard work!
Twilight Sparkle: The princess will be here in a few hours.
Spike: Ugh.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, help me round up these little guys.
Spike: Ugh, what does it look like I'm doin'? Ooow, waaah! D'oh. I know, I know, "stop fooling around".

Parasprite: [several chirps]
Rainbow Dash: Huh? Huh?! [screech] [grunt] [groan] Get off me! [groan] [grunt] Waaa!

Rarity: Not only are you adorable, but you're also quite useful.
Parasprite: [purr] [grunt]
Rarity: Oh! Are you okay? Aaah! [gasp] Eewww. Aaah! Gross gross gross! No creature that behaves so revoltingly is allowed in my boutique!
Parasprite: [grunt] [pop]
Rarity: [screech]

Pinkie Pie: Look Rarity, Applejack loaned me a harmonica. [plays harmonica] Isn't that great?
Parasprites: [chirping]
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] And not a moment too soon.
Rarity: Ugh, Pinkie, I'm a little busy right now.
Pinkie Pie: And I'm not? You know how many more instruments I've gotta find? A lot, that's how many. Now if we split the list between us, we might just make it in time.
Rarity: Please, Pinkie, I don't have time for some silly scavenger hunt. I've got a real problem.
Pinkie Pie: You've got a real problem alright. And a banjo is the only answer!

Twilight Sparkle: [gasp]
Rarity: [gasp] I see we're having the same problem.
Rainbow Dash: Ditto!
Twilight Sparkle: Fluttershy knows everything about animals, I'm sure she can tell us how to stop them from multiplying.
Parasprites: [chirp]
Twilight Sparkle: ...or not.

Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, do something Fluttershy, can't you control them?
Fluttershy: I've tried everything I know: I've tried begging, and pleading, and beseeching, and asking politely and...
Rainbow Dash: Guh.
Twilight Sparkle: [whine]

Princess Celestia: [scream]

Twilight Sparkle: If we can't get them under control before the princess arrives, it'll be a total disaster.
Parasprite: [hack]
Rarity: Ew! If you ask me it's already a total disaster.
Applejack: Here's all those apples you wanted, Fluttershy, but I still can't figure why y'need so many. HEY!
Fluttershy: What do we do?
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] I got it! No pony can herd like Applejack.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah! We can drive 'em back into the forest.
Applejack: [scoffs] I'll rastle 'em up, but I need everypony's help to do it. Twilight, you and Rarity wait over there. I'll herd the little critters straight at ya like a funnel. Rainbow Dash, you and Fluttershy stay on top of 'em, don't let 'em fly away.
Rainbow Dash: Aye aye.
Applejack: Yeeeeeee-haw!
Parasprite: [screech]
Applejack: Alright y'all, here goes nothin'. Look out Rarity, that one's fixin' to get away. Keep a lead on 'em, Rainbow Dash. Hold on girls, we're almost there.
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie!
Pinkie Pie: Twilight, we don't have much time.
Twilight Sparkle: You're telling me. The princess could arrive at any moment.
Pinkie Pie: Exactly. That's why I need you gals to drop what you're doing and help me find some maracas.
Twilight Sparkle: Maracas? Pinkie, we've got much bigger problems than missing maracas.
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] You're right! Getting a tuba has to be our number one goal. Follow me. I said, follow me!
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie, you are so random.
Pinkie Pie: And you are all so stubborn!
Applejack: Forget her ladies. Focus. Head 'em up and move 'em out.

Rainbow Dash: All right! [grunt]
Fluttershy: Ouch.
Twilight Sparkle: We did it. Nice work, Applejack.
Applejack: Couldn't a'done it without y'all.
Twilight Sparkle: Now let's get back and clean up the mess they made before the princess arrives.

Twilight Sparkle: Okay, everyone knows what to do, right? We gotta work extra hard to make up for lost time.
Fluttershy: [gasps]
Twilight Sparkle: Where did they come from?
Fluttershy: Well, I may have kept just one. Heh. I couldn't help myself. They're just so cute.
Twilight Sparkle: We don't have time to keep rounding up these things. What do we do now?
Rainbow Dash: We call in the weather patrol. [grunts]
Rarity: [shriek]
Rainbow Dash: Time to take out the adorable trash. YAAAAAA!
Parasprites: [chirp]
Twilight Sparkle: [grunt] Way to go, Rainbow Dash!
Applejack: Looks like our problems are solved.
Pinkie Pie: They will be with these cymbals. [crash] Hey! Give me those back!
Rainbow Dash: Whoa. Yaa! Yow! Woah! Wow! I can't hold it! She's breaking up.
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie Pie, what have you done?
Pinkie Pie: I've lost a brand new pair of cymbals, that's what I've done.
Twilight Sparkle: Will you forget about your silly instruments for one second? You're ruining our efforts to save Ponyville.
Pinkie Pie: Me? Ruin? I'm not the ruiner, I'm the ruin-ee! Or is it ruiness? Ruinette?
Applejack: Come on girls, there's no reasoning with that one. She's a few apples short of a bushel.
Pinkie Pie: Hey! I'm trying to tell you all that the ruining is on the other hoof. If you just slow down and listen to me!

Parasprites: [chirps] [munch] [munch]
Pony: [gasp]
Gardening pony: Aah!
Fluttershy: What do we do? They're eating all the food in town.
Applejack: [gasp] My apples!
Twilight Sparkle: We've gotta do something. [gasps] I got it! I'll cast a spell to make them stop eating all the food.
Pinkie Pie: Look, tambourines! If you could all just... [scream] [tambourines shake]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp]
Parasprite: [chirp]
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]
Parasprite: [munch]
Rainbow Dash: Heh. Hey, it worked. They're not eating the food anymore.
Rarity: Oh no... if they get inside my store... Everypony for herself!

Rarity: My outfits! Go on, shoo! Get out of here, you naughty! Naughty! [shrieks]
Pinkie Pie: I'll save you!
[recorder]
Rarity: [shriek]

Applejack: No woodland creature's gonna eat the Apple Family's crop.
[parasprites buzzing]
Applejack: Brace yourself, y'all, here they come. [gasp] Didn't see that one comin'.

Spike: Help!
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] They're eating the words. [grunts]
Spike: Help...

Zecora: Ugh. Have you gone mad?
Twilight Sparkle: Zecora, these little guys are devouring Ponyville, and the princess is on her way. Can you help us, please?
Zecora: Oh, monster of so little size. Is that a parasprite before my eyes?
Twilight Sparkle: I don't know! Is it?
Zecora: Tales of crops and harvests consumed. If these creatures are in Ponyville, you're doomed.
Twilight Sparkle: [gulp]

Twilight Sparkle: [grunts] Oh no, here she comes.
[ponies scream]
Daisy: Aaaah, aaaaaaah!
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, here's the plan. Rainbow Dash, you distract them.
Rainbow Dash: YAAAA!
Twilight Sparkle: Good. Everyone else, we need to build an exact copy of Ponyville right over there. We've got less than a minute. Zecora was right, we're doomed. Oh no, the princess's procession is here. It's all over!
[polka music]
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie? We're in the middle of a crisis here. This is no time for your... nonsense?

Twilight Sparkle: Look.
Princess Celestia: Twilight Sparkle, my prized pupil.
Twilight Sparkle: Hello, princess.
Princess Celestia: So lovely to see you again, as well as your friends.
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: So... how was the trip? Hit much traffic?
Princess Celestia: Ah, what is this? Oh ho ho, these creatures are adorable.
Rainbow Dash: They're not that adorable.
Princess Celestia: I'm terribly honored that you and the good citizens of Ponyville have organized a parade in honor of my visit.
Twilight Sparkle: Parade? Oh. Yes, the parade.
Princess Celestia: Unfortunately, that visit is going to have to wait for another time. I'm afraid an emergency has come up in Fillydelphia. Apparently there's been some sort of infestation.
Twilight Sparkle: An... infestation?
Princess Celestia: Yes, a swarm of incredibly bothersome creatures has invaded the poor town. I'm sorry Twilight, to have to put you all through so much trouble.
Twilight Sparkle: Trouble? What trouble?
Princess Celestia: Before I have to go, would you care to give me your latest report on the magic of friendship in person?
Twilight Sparkle: My... report?
Princess Celestia: Haven't you learned anything about friendship?
Twilight Sparkle: Actually, I have. I've learned that sometimes the solution to your problems can come from where you least expect it. It's a good idea to stop and listen to your friends' opinions and perspectives...
[cymbals crash]
Twilight Sparkle: Even when they don't always seem to make sense.
Princess Celestia: I'm so proud of you, Twilight Sparkle, and I'm very impressed with your friends as well. It sounds like you're all learning so much from each other.
Twilight Sparkle: Thank you, princess.
Pinkie Pie: Hey, what happened to the princess?
Twilight Sparkle: Emergency in Fillydelphia.
Rainbow Dash: Some sort of infestation.
Pinkie Pie: Oh no! Have they got parasprites too? Well, have tuba, will travel.
Twilight Sparkle: I think the princess can handle it.
Applejack: So you knew what those critters were all along, huh Pinkie Pie?
Pinkie Pie: Well, DUH! Why do you think I was so frantic to get my hooves on all these instruments? I tried to tell you.
Twilight Sparkle: We know, Pinkie Pie, and we're sorry we didn't listen.
[Rainbow Dash: I'm sorry, Pinkie.] [Rarity: So sorry, Pinkie.] [Fluttershy: Sorry, Pinkie.] [Applejack: Real sorry, Pinkie.]
Twilight Sparkle: You're a great friend, even if we don't always understand you.
Pinkie Pie: Thanks guys, you're all great friends too, even when I don't understand me.
Twilight Sparkle: You saved my reputation with Princess Celestia, and more importantly, you saved Ponyville.

Twilight Sparkle: ...Or not.
[sad trombone]

[music]
[credits]

[crickets]
Spike: [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Spike, wake up. Wake up, wake up, it's Winter Wrap Up day!
Spike: Huh? Mommy?
Twilight Sparkle: Winter Wrap Up!
Spike: You're not mommy.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, the first day of spring is tomorrow, so every pony in Ponyville needs to clean up winter. Now help me get ready.
Spike: Clean up winter? Who cleans up winter? Don't they just use magic to change the seasons like they do in Canterlot?
Twilight Sparkle: No Spike, Ponyville was started by Earth ponies, so for hundreds of years they've never used magic to clean up winter. It's traditional. [sigh]
Spike: It's ridiculous. No magic... Fuh.
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, let's see: scarf, check; saddle, check; boots, check; Spike refusing to get up and going back to sleep, check. It's a good thing I'm so organized, I'm ready. Bright and early. Oh... maybe a little too early.

[theme song]

Twilight Sparkle: Those must be the team vests Rarity designed. Blue for the weather team, green for the plant team, and tan for the animal team. I wonder which team vest I'll be wearing.
Spike: I'll take a blue vest, same color as my blanket, which I think I hear calling my name. "Spike! Spike! Come to bed!" Ugh, it's too early.
Mayor Mare: Thank you, everypony, for being here bright and early. We need every single pony's help to wrap up winter, and bring in spring.
[ponies cheer]
Mayor Mare: Now, all of you have your vests, and have been assigned to your teams, so let's do even better than last year, and have the quickest Winter Wrap Up ever!
[ponies cheer]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, this is so exciting.
Mayor Mare: Alright everypony, find your team leader, and let's get galloping!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh gosh, where should I go? I'm not sure where I fit in. What exactly does everypony do?

[Rainbow Dash]
Three months of winter coolness
And awesome holidays


[Pinkie Pie]
We've kept our hoovsies warm at home
Time off from work to play


[Applejack]
But the food we've stored is runnin' out
And we can't grow in this cold


[Rarity]
And even though I love my boots
This fashion's getting old


[Twilight Sparkle]
The time has come to welcome spring
And all things warm and green
But it's also time to say goodbye
It's winter we must clean
How can I help? I'm new, you see
What does everypony do?
How do I fit in without magic?
I haven't got a clue!


[Choir]
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
Let's finish our holiday cheer
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!


[Applejack]
'Cause tomorrow spring–


[Rainbow Dash]
–is here!


[Choir]
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!


[Rainbow Dash]
Bringing home the southern birds
A Pegasus' job begins
And clearing all the gloomy skies
To let the sunshine in
We move the clouds
And we melt the white snow


[Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie]
When the sun comes up
Its warmth and beauty will glow!


[Choir]
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
Let's finish our holiday cheer
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!


[Rarity]
Little critters hibernate
Under the snow and ice


[Fluttershy]
We wake up all their sleepy heads
So quietly and nice


[Rarity]
We help them gather up their food
Fix their homes below


[Fluttershy]
We welcome back the southern birds


[Fluttershy and Rarity]
So their families can grow!


[Choir]
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter)
Let's finish our holiday cheer
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter)
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter)
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!


[Applejack]
No easy task to clear the ground
Plant our tiny seeds
With proper care and sunshine
Everyone it feeds
Apples, carrots, celery stalks
Colorful flowers too
We must work so very hard


[Applejack, Cherry Berry, and Golden Harvest]
It's just so much to do!


[Choir]
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
Let's finish our holiday cheer
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!


[Pinkie Pie]
'Cause tomorrow spring is here


[Choir]
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!


[Twilight Sparkle]
Now that I know what they all do
I have to find my place
And help with all of my heart
Tough task ahead I face
How will I do without my magic
Help the Earth pony way
I wanna belong so I must
Do my best today,
Do my best today!


[Choir]
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
Let's finish our holiday cheer
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!


[Twilight Sparkle]
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!

Twilight Sparkle: Everypony belongs to a team. What should I do? Where should I go?
Rainbow Dash: Alright team, you're clear for takeoff.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash!
Rainbow Dash: Oh, hey Twilight, what's up?
Twilight Sparkle: What are you doing?
Rainbow Dash: Sending off one of my flight crews to retrieve the birds that have flown south for the winter.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, can I help? How about if I help clear out the clouds?
Rainbow Dash: Um...
Twilight Sparkle: Right. No wings.
Rainbow Dash: Sorry, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Great, now what do we do?
Spike: I don't know about you, but I'm gonna be nappin'. [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: Come on Spike, this is serious business. Winter needs to be wrapped up, and I'm determined to do my part. Somehow.

Twilight Sparkle: Rarity, please tell me there's something, anything I can help you with.
Rarity: Well, how would you like to help create Ponyville's finest birds' nests?
Twilight Sparkle: Birds' nests?
Rarity: Why yes. When the weather team guides the birds back north for the spring, they'll need a place to live and lay their eggs.
Twilight Sparkle: Wow, Rarity, that one's really beautiful.
Rarity: Oh why, thank you most sincerely. Would you like to try your hoof at a nest?
Twilight Sparkle: Would I? Yes! Where do I begin?
Rarity: Okay. Now... uh, take some of that straw and hay over there, and a little bit of branch. Now, weave them through there, yes. Uh, take some ribbon, yes, oh uh, n... not there, oooh, yes, uh, tuck it in over there, uh but be careful not to... I don't know I guess that would do... oh dear.
Twilight Sparkle: There! It looks just like... yours. Oh my.
Spike: That nest needs to be condemned.
Rarity: Oh, Spa-ha-hike, it's not so bad, ah, maybe birds can use it as a...
Spike: An outhouse?
Rarity: Spike. It's just fine. It's just a little rough around the edges. Let me lend you a hoof. Let's just untie this ribbon, and let me take out these sticks here, we'll shave this, [mumbling]
Twilight Sparkle: Hw...
Spike: I think we lost her.
Rarity: Ah, and we need to weave the string...

Pinkie Pie: Hellooooooo, Twilight! Wheeeeeeee!
Twilight Sparkle: Wow, Pinkie Pie, you're quite the skater. Probably the best skater I've ever seen.
Pinkie Pie: Thanks Twilight, I've been doing this since I was an itty-bitty little-wittle Twinkie-Pinkie. Just comes natural. Which is probably why they designated me the lake scorer. I cut lines in the lakes with my skates. That way, when the rest of the weather team comes here to break the ice, it'll be easy as pie.
Twilight Sparkle: How clever. When the thick ice begins to melt, it'll break along the lines. Well, you sure have a lot of work ahead of you, there's quite a few lakes in Ponyville.
Pinkie Pie: Ha, tell me about it. Hey, Twilight, wanna help me out?
Twilight Sparkle: Would I?
Pinkie Pie: Come on, put on those skates over there. I bet you'll be a natural too.
Twilight Sparkle: Okay.

Pinkie Pie: Yaaaaay! [cheers]
Twilight Sparkle: Uh... maybe on second thought.
Spike: What are you talking about? You said you wanted to be helpful.
Pinkie Pie: Yippie!
Spike: Now get out there.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no, whoa, wow...
Pinkie Pie: Twilight, steer! Steer!
Twilight Sparkle: Yaaaaa!
Pinkie Pie: Oh boy...
[screams]
Spike: Pwuh.
Pinkie Pie: [blips]
Spike: Ha ha, you are a natural, Twilight. A natural disaster. [laughter]
Pinkie Pie: Twilight, you did a great job your first time around. I'm sure my first time was just as wobbly and bobbly and crasheriffic as yours.
Twilight Sparkle: Really?
Pinkie Pie: No.
Spike: [chuckles]
Pinkie Pie: But did I make you feel better?
Twilight Sparkle: Mm-hmm, yeah, I guess.
Pinkie Pie: I think you'll be super awesome at something that keeps your hoofs on the ground. I know, Fluttershy could probably use your help with the critters.
Twilight Sparkle: Well... I'm pretty good with little animals. Yeah, I'll go help her.
Pinkie Pie: Uh... it's, ah, that a-way.
Twilight Sparkle: Yaaaaaa!
Spike: [chuckles]

Fluttershy: Wake up, little sleepy heads. Hope you had some wonderful dreams and restful hibernation, but it's time to get up now, spring is coming.
Hedgehogs: [yawn]
Twilight Sparkle: Awww, how cute.
Fluttershy: Aren't they? This is my favorite task the whole season, when I get to see all my little animal friends again.
Spike: Uh, what's "hibernation"?
Fluttershy: It's like a long sleep.
Spike: Long sleep?
Fluttershy: Yes. [bell rings] Wake up, little porcupines. Animals often hibernate through the winter to save their energy and eat less food.
Spike: I definitely like the idea of hibernation, uh, except for the "eat less food" part.
Porcupines: [yawn] [yelp]
Fluttershy: Oh, would you just look at all these warrens and dens? I'm worried that I won't be able to wake up every animal before spring comes.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, I'll help, Fluttershy.
Fluttershy: You will? Oh, that would be wonderful.
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, let's start there.

[bell rings]
Twilight Sparkle: Hello? Wake up little friends, wherever you are. Spring is coming. [bell rings] I wonder which cute little furry creatures I've awoken.
Snakes: [hiss]
Twilight Sparkle: Waaa! Snakes! Snakes! [scream] Ugh! [grunt] [scream] Ugh!
Fluttershy: Good morning, friends.
Twilight Sparkle: [groan]

Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] All this Winter Wrap Up stuff is a lot harder than it looks.
Spike: Right, because there's no magic. Why don't you just use magic, Twilight, and get it done the right way?
Twilight Sparkle: No, Spike, I have to do it the traditional way. Ponyville has never needed magic to wrap up winter.
Spike: Well, they never had you here before, either. Think how much quicker they could wrap up winter with your magic.
Twilight Sparkle: No, no, no! I'm gonna find some other way that I can help out if it kills me. [grunt]

Applejack: Keep pushin', Caramel. That's it, Bumpkin. I know it's hard work, but you guys are doin' great. Yee-haw!
Twilight Sparkle: Hey, Applejack. How's everything going?
Applejack: Oh, just dandy. Little slow startin', but peachy all the same. There's a lot of ground to clear ya hear. We can't even start the plantin' and the waterin' until we git all these heap a' snow high-tailed outta here.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, I'd like to help.
Applejack: Well, I... I dunno Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: Just give me a chance.
Applejack: Well, I never turn down a hard worker, but...
Twilight Sparkle: [struggle] Ugh... [struggle] Ugh... [gasp]
Spike: Think of how much quicker they could wrap up winter with your magic.
Twilight Sparkle: I could use a come-to-life spell. Hwww... Here goes...
Applejack: Hmm. She's awful strong for such a little pony.
Spike: That's my girl, following my advice.
Applejack: And what in tarnation does that mean?
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Uh-oh. Slow down. Slow down!
Spike: [yelp]
Spike and Applejack: Whoa-oa-oa!
Applejack: What's going on? Wha'd'ya do? You used magic, didn't you?

Applejack: Nuts, Twilight, you used magic.
Spike: The nerve. Can you believe her?
Applejack: That's not how we do it 'round here, Twilight, and especially not on MAH farm.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, see, I just wanted to... [whine]

Spike: Come on, Twilight. Come on out.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm a winter mess up.
Spike: Well you're good at a lot of things, just not nest-making, ice-skating, animal-waking, snow-clearing.
Twilight Sparkle: [whine] Thanks a lot for making me feel so much better.
Spike: That's what I'm here for, sister.
Applejack: Rainbow Dash, y'all on the weather team need to melt the rest of the snow here on the ground and the trees, pronto.
Rainbow Dash: Got it.
Fluttershy: Wait. My poor little animals' homes will get flooded if the snow melts too fast.
Rainbow Dash: Got it.
Applejack: I'm tellin' you, Rainbow, you gotta melt that snow now.
Fluttershy: No, you simply must wait.
Rainbow Dash: Okay.
Applejack: Go.
Fluttershy: Stop.
Applejack: Go.
Fluttershy: Stop.
Applejack: GO!
Fluttershy: STOP!
Rainbow Dash: Ugh! Make up your minds!
Mayor Mare: Oh! What in Equestria are all you arguing about? This sort of silliness is why we were late for spring last year, and the year before that, and the year before that.
Twilight Sparkle: Did she say late?
Mayor Mare: I was hoping my amazingly inspirational speech would urge everyone to do better than last year, but now it looks like we're going to be later than ever. I mean just look at this catastrophe. The ice scorers made the ice chunks too big to melt; the nest designer is horrendously behind, we need several hundred, and she's only made one;
Rarity: [sob]
Mayor Mare: And don't get me started on all the clouds in the sky, the icicles on the trees... This isn't good, not at all!
Applejack: And it's gonna be all to pieces disastrous if we can't get our seeds all planted.
Rainbow Dash: Chillax Applejack, we're bustin' our chops as fast as we can.
Fluttershy: No, not fast, we have to wake animals slowly.
Big McIntosh: Uh, AJ?
Applejack: Oh good gravy, Caramel lost the grass seeds again, didn't he?
Big McIntosh: Eeyup.
Rainbowshine: [grunt] Ditzy Doo accidentally went north to get the southern birds!
Rainbow Dash: Oh that featherbrain. Didn't she learn her lesson last year when she went west?
[ponies grumble and complain]
Mayor Mare: Stop this at once. We don't have time to argue. It's almost sundown. Spring is going to be late again. Another year of scandal and shame. If only we could be more organized.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Get my checklist and clipboard, STAT!
Spike: Eh, yes, ma'am.
Twilight Sparkle: Stop, everypony!
[ponies argue]
Twilight Sparkle: Stop!
[bird chirps]
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry. I know you all want to complete your jobs on time, but arguing is no way to go about it. What you need is organization, and I'm just the pony for the job.

[Winter Wrap Up instrumental]

Mayor Mare: I can't believe it. Spring is here! On time! And we have you to thank for it. If it weren't for your organizing skills we would still be arguing.
Big McIntosh: Eeyup.
[laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: It was a team effort.
Mayor Mare: And since you helped every team, we have an official vest for you. We give you the title, "All-Team Organizer".
Twilight Sparkle: Gosh, I don't even know what to say. Thank you, everypony.
Mayor Mare: And hereby I declare that winter is... wrapped up on time.
[cheers]
Applejack: Spike's sure gonna be in for a hog-sized surprised when that last piece a' ice melts.
[laughter]

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
Winter Wrap Up was one of the most special things I've ever been a part of here in Ponyville. It helped me to learn we all have hidden talents, and if we're patient and diligent, we're sure to find them, and as always, with good friendship and teamwork, ponies can accomplish anything. How's that, Spike? Spike?
Spike: [snore]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Spike. [laughter]

[music]
[credits]

[school bell rings]
[students chatter happily]
Cheerilee: Let's quiet down please. We have a very important lesson to get to. [class quiets down] Thank you. Today we are going to be talking about cutie marks.
Diamond Tiara: Bo-ring [sigh]
Cheerilee: You can all see my cutie mark, can't you? Like all ponies, I wasn't born with a cutie mark. My flank was blank.
Twist: Aww...! She's so precious!
Cheerilee: Then one day, when I was about your age, I woke up to find that a cutie mark had appeared.
[offscreen: Look at her hair!]
Cheerilee: Yes I know, but honestly, that's how everypony was wearing their mane back then. I had decided to become a teacher, and the flowers symbolized my hope that I could help my future students bloom if I nurture them with knowledge. The smiles represented the cheer I hope to bring to my little ponies while they were learning. Now, can anyone tell me when a pony gets his or her cutie mark?
Twist: Oh! Oh! Oh! When she discovers that certain something that makes her special!
Cheerilee: That's right, Twist. A cutie mark appears on a pony's flank when he or she finds that certain something that makes them different from every other pony. Discovering what makes you unique isn't something [Diamond Tiara: pssst!] that happens overnight, and no amount of hoping, wishing, [Diamond Tiara: pssst!] or begging, would make a cutie mark appear before its time.
Diamond Tiara: PSSST!
Apple Bloom: What?!
Cheerilee: Apple Bloom! Are you passing a note?
Apple Bloom: Uh, I... Um...
Cheerilee: What could be so important that it couldn't wait until after class? [gasp] It's blank.
Diamond Tiara: [laughter] Remind you of anypony? [laughter]
[students whisper]

[theme song]

[school bell rings]
[students chatter happily]
Twist: Want some sweets? I've got some peppermint sticks. I made them myself.
Apple Bloom: Mm-mm.
Twist: They'll make you smi-i-le.
Apple Bloom: No...
Diamond Tiara: I don't know why we had to sit through a lecture about getting a cutie mark. I mean, waiting for your cutie mark is sooo last week. You got yours, I just got mine. We all have them already. [gasp] I mean, almost all of us have them already. Don't worry, you two, you're still totally invited to my cute-ceañera this weekend.
Silver Spoon: It's going to be amazing.
Diamond Tiara: It's a party celebrating me and my fantastic cutie mark. How could it not be?
Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon: Bump! Bump! Sugar-lump, rump! [laughing]
Apple Bloom: Gimme a break.
Silver Spoon: See you this weekend...
Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon: Blank flanks! [laughing]

Apple Bloom: It's not fair! It's just not fair!
Applejack: Don't get your mane in a tangle. You'll get your cutie mark. Every pony gets one eventually.
Apple Bloom: But I don't want one eventually! I want one right now! I can't go to Diamond Tiara's cute-ceañera without one, I just can't!
Applejack: 'Course you can. Y'know, I was the last pony in my class to get my cutie mark, and I couldn't be prouder of it. I know my future was to run Sweet Apple Acres, and these bright shiny apples sealed the deal. [gasp] Come to think of it, Granny Smith was the last one in her class, too. Huh, same as Big McIntosh.
Apple Bloom: I really don't see how that's supposed to make me feel better. It probably means that being the last one in your class to get a cutie mark runs in the family. ...runs in the family. Runs in the family! Runs in the family! You've got apples for your cutie mark, Granny Smith has an apple pie, Big McIntosh has an apple half, my unique talent must has som'n to do with apples! Apples apples apples! [crash] Oops... apples.

Applejack: Get your delicious nutritious apples here!
Apple Bloom: Delicious and nutritious, and so many uses! [chomp] You can eat 'em. [gulp] Play with 'em. [groan]
[offscreen: Hey, watch it!]
Apple Bloom: Create fine art for your home with 'em. You have to be crazy not to get a bushel of your very own.
Applejack: Heh... she's so creative, heh.
Apple Bloom: You, sir, care t' buy some apples?
Dr. Hooves: No thanks.
Apple Bloom: Why not?
Dr. Hooves: I have plenty at home.
Apple Bloom: Are you sure?
Dr. Hooves: Yes, I'm pretty sure I...
Apple Bloom: You're pretty sure, but you're not absolutely positively completely super-duper sure, are you?
Dr. Hooves: Y...ah... If I buy some apples, will you please leave me alone?
Apple Bloom: Aaal-right!
Applejack: You forgot your change!
Apple Bloom: Woo-hoo! That's how you sell s'm apples and get a cutie mark! So, what does my cutie mark look like? A shoppin' bag full of apples? A satisfied customer eating an apple? Hmm... maybe I gotta increase my sales figures first. YOU TOUCH IT, YOU BUY IT. We take cash or credit.
Applejack: I'm sorry, ma'am. Ma'am! Aww... Now Apple Bloom, you can't just...
Apple Bloom: That'll be four bits.
Sweetie Drops: I didn't put those in my bag.
Apple Bloom: Likely story. Four bits, lady!
Applejack: Apple Bloom! I am really really sorry about that. She's new. Here, take these. No charge. ...and these. ...and these.
Sweetie Drops: [groan]
Applejack: Y'all come back now, y'hear?
Apple Bloom: What?
Applejack: Sorry little sis, but your apple-sellin' days are over.
Apple Bloom: What? But how else am I gonna get my cutie mark?
Applejack: Home. Now.
Apple Bloom: Hm.
Applejack: Ugh. Listen, sugarcube, I know it's hard to wait for your very own cutie mark, but, you just can't force it. Besides, you're not that grown-up just yet. Ain't there other fillies in your class without one?
Apple Bloom: Well... Twist doesn't have hers yet.
Applejack: Do you think you'd feel better if you went to the party with her?
Apple Bloom: Mmm-hmm.
Applejack: Well there you go. Bet you and Twist would have a great time together. Now run along and find your friend.
Apple Bloom: You're sure you don't want me to stick around 'till the end of th' market?
Ace: Hey! Who's been using my racket?
Applejack: Yeah. I'm sure.

[knock, knock, knock, knock]
Twist: Oh, what's up, Apple Bloom?
Apple Bloom: So I was thinkin'... maybe we could go to Diamond Tiara's cute-ceañera together. I don't have a cutie mark, you don't have a cutie mark.
Twist: Well, um...
Apple Bloom: [gasp]
Twist: Isn't my cutie mark swell? I've always loved making my own favorite sweets, but it took me some time to discover that it was my super-special talent. Pretty sweet, huh?
Apple Bloom: Yeah, pretty... sweet.
Twist: Hey... this doesn't mean we can't go to the cute-ceañera together. You're still gonna come to the party, are you?
Diamond Tiara: Of course she will.
Silver Spoon: It's not like being the only pony there without a cutie mark, would be, like, the most embarrassing thing ever. [laughter]

Rainbow Dash: Wow, looks like somepony's got a dark cloud hanging over her head. Let me do something about that. What's the matter, kid?
Apple Bloom: [inhales] There's a cute-ceañera this afternoon and everypony in my class will be there and they'll all have their cutie marks and I wanna get my cutie mark but I'm no good at sellin' apples but I really wanna go to the party but how can I go to the party if I don't have my cutie mark which my big sister says I'm gonna get eventually but... I WANT IT NOW!
Rainbow Dash: Cutie mark? I can get you a cutie mark like that! [snap]
Apple Bloom: Applejack says these things take time. I have to just wait for it to happen.
Rainbow Dash: Why wait for something to happen when you can make it happen?
Apple Bloom: But Applejack says th...
Rainbow Dash: Hey, who are you gonna listen to, Applejack, or the pony who was first in her class to get a cutie mark? I always liked flying an' all, but I was going nowhere in a hurry. It wasn't until my very first race that I discovered a serious need for speed, and KAZAM, this sweet baby appeared as fast as lightning.

Rainbow Dash: That's right, stretch out those legs. Gotta be nice and loose. The key here is to try as many things as possible as quickly as possible. One of them is bound to lead to your cutie mark. Are you ready?
Apple Bloom: I'm ready!
Rainbow Dash: I said: Are! You! Ready!
Apple Bloom: I'M READY!
Rainbow Dash: Juggling, go! [whistle blows]
Apple Bloom: Ah!
Rainbow Dash: Hang-gliding, go! [whistle blows]
Apple Bloom: Whoa!
Rainbow Dash: Karate, go! [whistle blows]
Apple Bloom: Hi-ya! Ee...
Rainbow Dash: Kite-flying, go! [whistle blows]
Rainbow Dash: Ultrapony Roller Derby, go! [whistle blows]
Roller ponies: [growl]
Apple Bloom: Whoaaa! Whoa...

Rainbow Dash: Tried that one... tried that one... tried that one...
Silver Spoon: Your new outfit is, like, perfect for the party.
Diamond Tiara: I know. It totally shows off my cutie mark.
Silver Spoon: I love being special.
Tiara: Can you imagine how embarrassing it must be to be... not special?
Silver Spoon: I don't even want to, like, think about it.
Rainbow Dash: Tried that one... tried that one...
Apple Bloom: I'm doomed. Doomed! I'll never find sumth'n I'm good at.
Pinkie Pie: You look like you'd be good at eating cupcakes.
Apple Bloom: Eatin' cupcakes?
Rainbow Dash: Eating cupcakes?
Pinkie Pie: Eating cupcaaakes!
Apple Bloom: I really appreciate all your help Rainbow Dash. You're a really great coach and I really learned a lot from you and I'm sure I can learn a lot more but... I've got some cupcakes to eat! See you at cute-ceañera! Hold on, Pinkie Pie, I'm comin'.

Apple Bloom: I can't believe I didn't think of this. A cupcake-eating cutie mark, it's sooo obvious. Now, where are those cupcakes? I'm ready t' chow down!
Pinkie Pie: I don't have any cupcakes.
Apple Bloom: Oh.
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] But you look like you'd be good at helping me make some.
Apple Bloom: I guess, uh, making-cupcakes cutie mark could work too.

[Pinkie Pie]
All you have to do is take a cup of flour!
Add it to the mix!
Now just take a little something sweet, not sour!
A bit of salt, just a pinch!


Baking these treats is such a cinch!
Add a teaspoon of vanilla!
Add a little more, and you count to four,
And you never get your fill of...


Cupcakes! So sweet and tasty!
Cupcakes! Don't be too hasty!
Cupcakes! Cupcakes, cupcakes, CUPCAKES!

Apple Bloom: [cough] Hot, hot, hot!
Pinkie Pie: Oooh, those look much better than the last batch. [chomp] Mmm...
Apple Bloom: Ugh! I guess I'm not cut out to be a baker either. [sigh] I just have to face it, I'm gonna have a blank flank forever.
Pinkie Pie: What about that?
Apple Bloom: What about what? Is there something on my flank? Is there, is there, is there? [gasp] A cutie mark! It's a... a measuring cup? No. A mixin' bowl? No... Are those cupcakes? A tower of cupcakes maybe.
Pinkie Pie: [blow] Flour. It's flour! Yay! I guessed it. What game you wanna play next? Please say bingo, please say bingo.
Twilight Sparkle: Whoa, what's been going on in here?
Pinkie Pie: We've been making cupcakes, wanna try them?
Twilight Sparkle: Nnnno thank you... not that they don't look, heh, delicious.
Apple Bloom: Twilight, you have to help me!
Twilight Sparkle: What's the matter?
Apple Bloom: [inhales] Tiara's cute-ceañera's today and everypony in my class will be there and they'll all have their cutie marks and I want to get my cutie mark but I'm no good at selling apples or hang-gliding or making cupcakes, but I wanna go to the party but how can I go to the party if I don't have my cutie mark, which Pinkie Pie says I can't just make appear, but I need it to appear, RIGHT NOW!
Twilight Sparkle: Uhhh... I don't follow. How can I help you?
Apple Bloom: You can use your magic to make my cutie mark appear.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no, Apple Bloom. A cutie mark is something a pony has to discover for herself.
Apple Bloom: Please Twilight, jus' trah.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sorry but-
Apple Bloom: Oh please, please, please please please!
Twilight Sparkle: Alright alright!
Apple Bloom: Oh thank you thank you thank you. [pwing] Yes! I knew you could do... it.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sorry, sweetie, but I told you-
Apple Bloom: Try again, try again!
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]
[pwing] [pwang] [pwing] [pweng] [pwung] [pwing] [pwung] [pwong] [pwing] [pwing] [pwung] [pwing]
Apple Bloom: [gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: Told you that not even magic can make a cutie mark appear before its time.
Apple Bloom: It's hopeless, hopeless! I just won't go to the party, I can't go. Everyone will just laugh at me and make fun of me and call me name. It will be the worst night of my life.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sure it won't be as bad as all that.
Apple Bloom: Forget it, there's no way I'm going to that [gulp] party.

[ponies chatter]
Apple Bloom: How could I have forgotten the time? How could I have forgotten Pinkie Pie was hosting the party? How could I have forgotten it was at Sugarcube Corner?
Pinkie Pie: Don't forget your party hat, Forgetty Forgetterson!
Apple Bloom: I have to get out of here before anypony sees me.
Snails: [chomp]
Diamond Tiara: Hey! It's my cute-ceañera, I'm supposed to get the first bite at cake.
[pop] [pop] [pop] [pop] [pop] [pop]
Apple Bloom: Okay, Apple Bloom, almost there.
Applejack: Apple Bloom, you made it. After I heard about Twist, I was afraid you wouldn't show up. I sure am glad you came to your senses about this whole cutie mark thing. These things happen when these things are supposed to happen. Trying to rush 'em just drives you crazy. I'll let you be, looks like your friends want to talk to you.
Apple Bloom: [grunt]
Diamond Tiara: Well well well, look who's here.
Silver Spoon: Nice outfit.
Apple Bloom: Just sumt'n I, uh, pulled together last minute.
Diamond Tiara: It really shows off your cutie mark. Oh wait, that's right, you don't have one.
Apple Bloom: Uh, I have a cutie mark.
Silver Spoon: Eh, what? Since when?
Apple Bloom: Since... Um... Earlier today.
Diamond Tiara: Oh really? Let's see it.
Apple Bloom: I shouldn't. I couldn't. My cutie mark is so unbelievably amazing, I'm afraid that if I show it off, everyone will start paying attention to me instead of you. Outshined at your own cute-ceañera - can you imagine how embarrassing that would be?
Diamond Tiara: Uh, forget it, I didn't really want to see it anyway.
Apple Bloom: Okay, well, I'm gonna go mingle. Enjoy your party. [sigh]
[record scratch]
[everyone gasps]
Apple Bloom: Oh no.
Silver Spoon: Wow, that is an amazing cutie mark.
Diamond Tiara: Nice try...
Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon: Blank flank!
[offscreen: You got a problem with blank flanks?]
[fillies gasp]
Scootaloo: I said, you got a problem with blank flanks?
Silver Spoon: The problem is, I mean, she's like, totally not special.
Sweetie Belle: No, it means she's full of potential.
Scootaloo: It means she could be great at anything. The possibilities are, [mocking] like, endless.
Sweetie Belle: She could be a great scientist, or an amazing artist, or a famous writer. She could even be mayor of Ponyville some day.
Scootaloo: And she's not stuck being stuck-up like you two.
[ponies laugh]
Diamond Tiara: Hey, this is my party, why are you two on her side?
Scootaloo: Because...
Apple Bloom: [gasp] You don't have your cutie marks either? I thought I was the only one.
Scootaloo: We thought we were the only two.
Twilight Sparkle: I for one think you are three very lucky fillies.
Diamond Tiara: Lucky? How can they be lucky?
Twilight Sparkle: They still get to experience the thrill of discovering who they are, and what they're meant to be.
Applejack: And they got all the time in the world to figure it out, not just an afternoon.
[ponies chatter]
"Tornado Bolt": Wow, Apple Bloom, I wish I could be a scientist.
"Piña Colada": Do you really think you could be mayor?
"Coronet": Maybe I got my cutie mark too soon.
Diamond Tiara: Hey, what's everypony doing? This is my party, everypony is supposed to be paying attention to me.
Silver Spoon: Whatever. We still think you're losers, right Diamond Tiara? Bump, bump, sugar... lump...
Diamond Tiara: Not now, Silver Spoon.
Scootaloo: Name's Scootaloo.
Sweetie Belle: And I'm Sweetie Belle.
Apple Bloom: Apple Bloom.

[music]
Twist: This song is so super!
Apple Bloom: So I was thinking, now that we're friends... I mean, we are friends, right?
Scootaloo: How could we not be? We're totally alike. We don't have cutie marks, Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon drive us crazy--
Sweetie Belle: Totally crazy.
Apple Bloom: Well, now that we're friends, what if the three of us work together to find out who we are and what we're supposed to be?
Sweetie Belle: Ooh! Ooh! We could form our own secret society.
Scootaloo: I'm liking this idea.
Apple Bloom: A secret society. Yeah. We need a name for it though.
Scootaloo: The Cutie Mark Three?
Sweetie Belle: The Cutastically Fantastics?
Apple Bloom: How about... The Cutie Mark Crusaders?
Scootaloo: It's perfect!
Sweetie Belle: This is gonna be so great!
Apple Bloom: We're gonna be unstoppable!
Scootaloo: What do you say we celebrate with some of these delicious cupcakes?
Apple Bloom: NOT the cupcakes. Trust me.
Sweetie Belle: Let's see if there are any cookies.
Apple Bloom: Yeah! Come on.

Twilight Sparkle: Dearest Princess Celestia,
I am happy to report that one of your youngest subjects has learned a valuable lesson about friendship. Sometimes, the thing you think will cause you to lose friends and feel left out...
Princess Celestia: ...can actually be the thing that helps you make your closest friends and realize how special you are. Hmm...

[music]
[credits]

Rainbow Dash: [grunt] Whoo-hoo!
Applejack: Hoo-wee! Not a bad pitch for a pony who works with her head in the clouds.
Rainbow Dash: Oh yeah? Think you can do better, cowgirl?
Applejack: I know I can. [grunt] Oh, for Pete's sake!
Rainbow Dash: Heh! Looks like this Pegasus can pitch better than the workhorse. The object of the game is to get the closest to the stake.
Applejack: All right, all right. You got another throw there, pony girl.
Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
Applejack: [sarcastically] Wow, Rainbow, heh. You couldn't hit a barn door with that kind of a throw!
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, yeah. I still have the closest throw, Applesmack. Just try and beat it.
Applejack: [grunt] Yee-haw! It's a ringer. That's how you do it down here on the farm.
Rainbow Dash: I lost.
Applejack: Ah, don't feel bad, Rainbow. It's all in good fun.
Rainbow Dash: I hate losing.
Applejack: Besides, you're a mighty good athlete. I'm just better. Heh heh heh.
Rainbow Dash: All right, Applejack, you think you're the top athlete in all of Ponyville?
Applejack: Well, I was gonna say in all of Equestria, but that might be gildin' the lily.
Rainbow Dash: ...and I think I'm the top athlete. So let's prove it.
Applejack: Prove what?
Rainbow Dash: I challenge you to an Iron Pony competition. A series of athletic contests to decide who's the best, once and for all.
Applejack: You know what, Rainbow? You're on.

[theme song]

Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
Twilight Sparkle: So you two are doing what, now?
Applejack: An Iron--
Rainbow Dash: Iron Pony competition.
Applejack: See, we've set up a bunch of events to decide which one of us is--
Rainbow Dash: The most athletic pony ever! [grunt]
Twilight Sparkle: And I'm here to...?
Rainbow Dash: [grunt] I don' know. Why is she here?
Applejack: To be our judge and keep score.
Rainbow Dash: Right, heh. Somepony's gotta record my awesomeness for the history books. [grunt]

Spike: Hello everypony, and welcome to the first annual Iron Pony competition!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, Spike, who are you talking to?
Spike: Um... Uh, them! Let the games begin!
[ponies cheer]

Twilight Sparkle: Ready. Set. Go!
Applejack: [gasp] Dagnabbit.
Twilight Sparkle: Time, Spike?
Spike: 17 seconds.
Applejack: You're kiddin'! That breaks my record from last year's rodeo.
Spike: But you got a five second penalty for nudging the barrel.
Applejack: [sigh] Nuts and chews! Still, that's 22 seconds. Not too shabby. Hey, don't be nervous. Remember, it's all in good fun. Now git on up there.
Twilight Sparkle: Ready. Set. Go!
Applejack: Woo! That was some fancy hoofwork there, Rainbow!
Rainbow Dash: Thanks, but I [pant] couldn't have been as fast as you.
Applejack: What was the time on that, Spike?
Spike: 18 seconds!
Applejack: 18 seconds. Rainbow, are you sure you're not secretly a rodeo pony?
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash wins the barrel lead!
Rainbow Dash: Oh, I can't believe I won.
Applejack: Yeah, well, don't you go gettin' used to it.

[bell rings]
[ponies cheer]
Applejack: Mighty respectable, [spit] but let me show ya how it's really done. [grunt] [bell rings]
[ponies cheer]
Applejack: Years of applebuckin'.
[bell rings]
Rainbow Dash: Ugh.

Granny Smith: Waa-hoo!
Apple Bloom: Woohoo!
Big McIntosh: Eeyup!
Spike: Why me?
Twilight Sparkle: Go!
Spike: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa-hoa! Whoa! Whoaaa! Ouch.
Rainbow Dash: Ready for another pony ride?
Spike: No.
Twilight Sparkle: Go!
Spike: Guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guhwhoaaaaaa
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash wins the bronco-buck.
[bell rings]
Spike: And I lose.

[ponies cheer]
Spike: Whoa! [grunt] How do I get roped into these things?
Rainbow Dash: [grunt] Does this count?
[bell rings]

Applejack: [grunt]
[ponies cheer]
[bell rings]

Rainbow Dash: Yuh! [blows raspberry]
[ponies cheer]
[bell rings]

Applejack: [grunt] Wah!

[bell rings]

Rainbow Dash: Yeah.
[ponies gasp]
Fluttershy: [gasp]
[bell rings]

Spike: Fillies and gentlecolts, at the halfway point, our competitors are tied at five and five.
Twilight Sparkle: Who are you talking to?
Spike: Them!
[crowd chatters]

Twilight Sparkle: 95, 96, 97, 98, 99... a hundred!
Rainbow Dash: Yes!
[bell rings]
Applejack: Be a good sport, Applejack.

Applejack: [grunt]
Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
[bell rings]

[hens clucking]
[chicks chirping]
Applejack: [gasp]

Twilight Sparkle: All right, you two. This is the final event. Give it all you've got.
Spike: Looks like the workhorse might come out ahead in this one.
Applejack: [mumbling] That's not fair. You can't use your wings to help you win.
Rainbow Dash: Huh?
Applejack: [mumbling] You're cheatin'!
Rainbow Dash: I can't understand you with that rope in your mouth.
Applejack: [spits] I said... uh-oh. [grunt]
[crowd cheers]
[bell rings]
Rainbow Dash: Woo-hoo! I win by a landslide... or mudslide in your case. [chuckles] I am the Iron Pony!
Applejack: Only 'cause you cheated.
Rainbow Dash: What?
Applejack: You used your wingpower to help you win over half those contests.
Rainbow Dash: Sounds like sour apples to me.
Applejack: Are you sayin' you didn't use your wings?
Rainbow Dash: Well... no. But you never said I couldn't use my wings.
Applejack: I didn't think I needed to tell you to play fair.
Rainbow Dash: I still would have won even without my wings.
Applejack: Hah! Prove it.
Rainbow Dash: Gladly. How?
Applejack: Tomorrow is the annual Runnin' of the Leaves. I challenge you to race me in it.
Rainbow Dash: Heh! Easy shmeasy.
Applejack: Hold on! There is one condition: the point is to run, so no wings allowed.
Rainbow Dash: No wings? No problem.
Applejack: [spit]
Rainbow Dash: [spit]
Rainbow Dash: [blows raspberry]
Applejack: [chuckle]

Spike: Twilight, hurry up, we're gonna be late for the race.
Twilight Sparkle: Why are you so excited about the race? It's only for ponies.
Spike: Yeah, but I'm hoping I can be the announcer again. Just listen: Fillies and gentlecolts, welcome to the annual Running of the--
Pinkie Pie: Welcome to the annual Running of the Leaves! This is Pinkie Pie, your official p-eye-in-the-sky announcer.
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry, Spike. I guess that job's already taken.
Pinkie Pie: As everypony knows, the Running is a very important tradition, for without it, the autumn leaves of Equestria would never fall. So get ready, ponies. The Running of the Leaves will begin in five minutes.
Applejack: [grunts]
Rainbow Dash: Pardon me, excuse me. Make way for the Iron Pony.
Applejack: The Iron Phony, you mean.
Rainbow Dash: So, Applejack, you ready to win second place?
Applejack: I'm ready to run a good, clean race.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, yeah...
Applejack: You are not allowed to use your wings.
Rainbow Dash: I could win this race with both wings tied behind my back.

Applejack: [grunts] Trussed up like a turkey. Well, a turkey who can't fly, that is.
Rainbow Dash: Very funny.
Applejack: 'Least now we know we're racin' fair and square.
[trumpets]
Pinkie Pie: Racers! Please take your positions!
Spike: Um... Pinkie Pie?
Pinkie Pie: Hey, Spike! What's up? Oh wait, it's me! I'm up! [laughs]
Spike: Uh, yeah. I know you're doing the announcing today and stuff and... I'm sure you're gonna do a great job and all, but... I was just wondering...
Pinkie Pie: What?
Spike: Aw... Forget it.
Pinkie Pie: Spike! Would you like to be my co-reporter? We could comment on the action together.
Spike: We could?
Pinkie Pie: Climb on up.
Applejack: Twilight? What in tarnation are you doin' up here?
Twilight Sparkle: I'm racing.
Rainbow Dash: [laughs] Good one, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm not joking.
Rainbow Dash: What? You're not an athlete, you're a... well... you're an egghead.
Twilight Sparkle: I am not an egghead, I am well-read.
Rainbow Dash: [softly] Egghead.
Applejack: [snickers] But have you ever run a race?
Twilight Sparkle: Well, no, but I do know a lot about running.
Rainbow Dash: And you know this from...
Twilight Sparkle: Books. I've read several on the subject.
Rainbow Dash: What'd you read, "The Egghead's Guide to Running"? Did you stretch out your eye muscles to warm up? [laugh] Get it? Eye muscles.
Twilight Sparkle: Scoff if you must, Rainbow. But the Running of the Leaves is a Ponyville tradition, and since I'm here to learn, I've decided I should experience it myself.
Applejack: Well, I think that's just dandy, Twilight. Good luck. [snickers]
Rainbow Dash: Yeah. See you at the finish line... Tomorrow.
Pinkie Pie: All right, ponies, are you ready?
Spike: Get set.
[bell rings]
Pinkie Pie: And they're off!
Pinkie Pie: Welcome to the official coverage of the Running of the Leaves! You know, Spike, despite its name, the leaves don't do any of the actual running. No, that's left to My Little Ponies.
Spike: Why, yes, Pinkie, it's the running of the ponies that causes the leaves to fall.
Pinkie Pie: Ugh. Those lazy, lazy leaves. But this year, the run is about more than the weather. It's about the race to the finish and the two runners who want to win it: Applejack and Rainbow Dash.
Spike: You know, Pinkie, these two ponies have a bit of a grudge match they're trying to settle. Trying to prove who's the most athletic.
Pinkie Pie: Yes, and "grudge" rhymes with "fudge".
Spike: Yes, it... does. What?
Pinkie Pie: And I like fudge. But if I eat too much fudge I get a pudge and then I can't budge.
Spike: So... no fudge?
Pinkie Pie: Oh, no thanks. I had a big breakfast. Let's check in with our two competitive ponies, Applejack and Rainbow Dash. Having come fast out of the gate, Applejack and Rainbow Dash are evenly matched running neck in neck. But what's this? Applejack is making a move, she's now ahead by a nose. But Rainbow Dash pulls at Applejack's have-it and takes the lead. She's ahead by half a nose. Or maybe three quarters of a nose. No, about sixty-three point seven percent of a nose... Roughly speaking. Applejack sees this move and pushes forth with her strong workhorse legs slinking ahead by three hundred and fifty noses!
Applejack: Not so easy without wings, is it?
Rainbow Dash: Come on, Rainbow. Show 'em a little dash.
Spike: Ho-hold your horses, Pinkie! Rainbow Dash is catching up the frontrunner Applejack!
Pinkie Pie: What an upset. I thought Applejack had this in the bag.
Rainbow Dash: You didn't think I was gonna let you off that easily, did you?
Applejack: Whoa! I don't believe it.
Twilight Sparkle: I know, it's beautiful, isn't it?
Applejack: Not the scenery, Twilight. Rainbow Dash just tripped me.
Twilight Sparkle: She did not.
Applejack: She did too!
Twilight Sparkle: She did not, and if you slowed down and looked where you're going, like me, you'd see that you tripped over a rock.
Applejack: What? Oh, hayseed! Now I got a lot of ground to make up to catch Rainbow.
Twilight Sparkle: Just be careful!

Applejack: See you at the finish line!
Spike: I don't believe it. After a huge setback, Applejack is back at the front of the pack.
Pinkie Pie: She's the head of the pack, all right. The pick of the litter! The cat's pajamas! Oh wait, why would Applejack take some poor kitty's PJs? That's not very sporting of her.
Spike: Oookay... Let's get back to the race.
Rainbow Dash: Not so fast, Applejack! This race isn't over yet!
Applejack: It is for you. Heh.
Rainbow Dash: Whoa! Guh, I don't believe it, Applejack tripped me.
Twilight Sparkle: Don't you ponies ever look where you're going? You tripped on a stump. See?
Rainbow Dash: Oh, I see. A big cheater is what I see.
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow, Applejack would never cheat. It was just an accident.
Rainbow Dash: Sure it was. I mean, yeah, I'm sure it was.
Twilight Sparkle: Remember, Rainbow, this is just a game.
Rainbow Dash: Yes, but the rules have changed, and two can play at that game.

Pinkie Pie: Welcome back, Ponyvillians, it's me, Pinkie Pie.
Spike: And Spike. Looks like Rainbow is doing her best to catch up.
Pinkie Pie: I'm not sure how ketchup is going to help her in this contest. Now, in a hot dog eating contest it can make them doggies nice and slippery, but personally I prefer mustard. How about you, Spike?
Spike: Uh... I... like... pickles?
Pinkie Pie: Aaand it looks like Applejack has found herself in quite a pickle as Rainbow overtakes her.
Rainbow Dash: Look, ma, no wings.
Spike: As the racers enter Equestria's Whitetail Wood, Rainbow Dash is back in the lead.
Rainbow Dash: [chuckles]
Applejack: Ugh. Hey, Rainbow!
Rainbow Dash: [blows raspberry]
Applejack: [gasp] Why, that little cheater did that on purpose. It's on.

Rainbow Dash: Nice one, Rainbow.
Applejack: Later!
Rainbow Dash: [gasp] Aaa!

Rainbow Dash: [laughing]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my, Whitetail Wood is just lovely. Hey, Rainbow, shouldn't you be up ahead?
Rainbow Dash: [chuckling] I'm sure I'll win now.
Twilight Sparkle: Except that the other racers just passed you.
Rainbow Dash: Oh horse apples... See ya!

Pinkie Pie: Applejack, what are you doing up here?
Spike: There aren't even any trees.
Applejack: Er, no, but the sign's pointed this way... Rainbow. Mind giving me a lift?

Rainbow Dash: What the hay?! You said no flying!
Applejack: No, I said no wings.
Pinkie Pie: I must say, Spike, that this has been the most interesting Running of the Leaves in Equestria history!
Spike: With the most interesting announcing.
Pinkie Pie: But it isn't the running that's been fascinating. It's the lack of running!
Rainbow Dash: [grunt] Aaa!
Applejack: Whoa!
Rainbow Dash: Whoa!
Twilight Sparkle: Forgive me, girls. I know I'm not an athlete, but shouldn't the Running of the Leaves actually involve running?
Rainbow Dash: You know, I think Twilight's right.
Applejack: You do?
Rainbow Dash: Yeah! If you wanna beat me, you better... RUUUN!

Pinkie Pie: Once again, Rainbow Dash and Applejack are neck in neck, jockeying for position. Applejack inches ahead, now it's Rainbow, it's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash, it's Applejack--
Applejack: [grunt]
Spike: Oh no, she di'int!
Pinkie Pie: Oh yes, she di'id!
Applejack: Cut it out!
Rainbow Dash: No, you cut it out!
Applejack: You started it.
Rainbow Dash: And now I'm gonna finish it.
Applejack: Oh no, you won't.
Rainbow Dash: Oh yes, I will. [grunt] That's it! All bets are off!
Applejack: Oh no, you don't.
Pinkie Pie: It's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash, it's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash--
Rainbow Dash: I won!
Applejack: No, I won!
Rainbow Dash: I won!
Spike: You tied!
Applejack and Rainbow Dash: Tied?!
Applejack: For first?
Pinkie Pie: For last!
Applejack: LAST?
Rainbow Dash: Then who won?
Applejack and Rainbow Dash: YOU?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no, but I did get fifth place, which is rather good considering I've never run a race before.
Applejack: What? How's that even possible?
Rainbow Dash: You ran so slow, and looked at the scenery.
Twilight Sparkle: Exactly. I paced myself, just like my book said. Then at the end, when all the other ponies were worn out, I sprinted to the finish.
Rainbow Dash: I don't believe it. Twilight beat us.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, with all your horsing around, it was quite easy.
Applejack: You're right, Twilight. Our behavior was just terrible.
Rainbow Dash: We weren't very good sports.
Princess Celestia: Sounds to me that an important lesson was learned.
Applejack and Rainbow Dash: Princess Celestia?!
Applejack: W... What are you doin' here?
Princess Celestia: Fall is one of my favorite seasons, so I came to celebrate the Running of the Leaves.
Applejack: I'm sorry you had to see us being such poor sport, Princess.
Princess Celestia: That's all right, Applejack. Anypony can get swept up in the excitement of competition.
Twilight Sparkle: It's important to remember that the friendship is always more important than the competition.
Princess Celestia: Exactly, Twilight. Now, unfortunately, because the two of you were busy tricking each other instead of shaking down leaves, many of the lovely trees of Equestria are still covered.
Applejack: Why, Princess, I bet we can knock those leaves down for you lickety-split. Whaddya say, friend? Wanna go for another run?
Rainbow Dash: I'd love to stretch my legs.

[music]
[credits]

Rarity: Oh, Opalescence. Can't you just picture it? Moi, stepping up in a stunning new gown at the Grand Galloping Gala in Canterlot! Why, yes! I did make it myself. Thank you so much for asking. Oh, Opal, of course you can help me. Thank you. What's that? You want to help me more! Oh, aren't you the sweetest thing? Careful now. Don't move. This shouldn't take long at all.

[theme song]

Applejack: Howdy, Rarity!
Twilight Sparkle: Shh... Can't you see Rarity is trying to concentrate?
Applejack: What do you think she's makin'?
Twilight Sparkle: Looks like a dress.
Applejack: Well, that makes sense. Since this is a dressmaker's shop and all.
Rarity: Is there something I can help you with?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, so very sorry to trouble you, Rarity, but I need a quick favor. Could you please fix the button for me? It's my dress for the Grand Galloping Gala.
Rarity: Oh, no, no, no! You can't wear this... old thing. You need a glamorous new outfit for the Gala and I'll make it for you. No problem at all. It will be my pleasure!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, that's really sweet of you to offer, Rarity, but I can't let you do that. It would be so much work. This dress is fine.
Rarity: Twilight Sparkle. I insist on making you a new dress.
Twilight Sparkle: But...
Rarity: Not another word! I won't take no for an answer.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, in that case... Thank you for your generosity, Rarity. Knowing your handiwork, I'm sure it will be absolutely beautiful.
Rarity: Let me guess, Applejack. You don't want a new gown either.
Applejack: Gown? Shoot. I was just gonna wear my old work duds.
Rarity: You can't possibly be serious, Applejack! You absolutely must wear formal attire.
Applejack: Hm... Nah.
Rarity: What if I just spruce up your... duds for you a little bit?
Applejack: Okay, sure. Why not? Since you're up for it and all. Just don't make them too... froufrou-y.
Rarity: Deal!
Rainbow Dash: Look out below!
[crash]
Rainbow Dash: Sorry. New trick. Didn't quite work.
Rarity: Hmm... [gasp] Idea! I'll make you an outfit for the Gala too, Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: Outfit for the what now?
Rarity: I'll make one for you and you and all of you. Oh! And of course Pinkie and Fluttershy too. Oh, and when I'm done, we can hold our very own fashion show!
Twilight Sparkle: What a great idea! If you're sure you can handle it.
Rarity: Oh, it'll be a little bit of work, but it will be a wonderful boost for my business. Plus, fun!
Rainbow Dash: Oh, I love fun things!
Rarity: Then it's settled. We'll have a fashion show starring us.
Applejack: So all you have to do is make a different, stunning, original, amazing outfit for one, two, three, four, five... plus yourself, six ponies? And lickety split?
Rarity: Oh, Applejack. You make it sound as if it's going to be hard.

[Rarity]
Thread by thread, stitching it together
Twilight's dress, cutting out the pattern snip by snip
Making sure the fabric folds nicely
It's the perfect color and so hip
Always gotta keep in mind my pacing
Making sure the clothes' correctly facing
I'm stitching Twilight's dress


Yard by yard, fussing on the details
Jewel neckline, don't you know a stitch in time saves nine?
Make her something perfect to inspire
Even though she hates formal attire
Gotta mind those intimate details
Even though she's more concerned with sales
It's Applejack's new dress


Dressmaking's easy, for Pinkie Pie something pink
Fluttershy something breezy
Blend color and form,
[To Opalescence] Do you think it looks cheesy?


Something brash, perhaps quite fetching
Hook and eye, couldn't you just simply die?
Making sure it fits forelock and crest
Don't forget some magic in the dress
Even though it rides high on the flank
Rainbow won't look like a tank
I'm stitching Rainbow's dress


Piece by piece, snip by snip
Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip
Thread by thread, primmed and pressed
Yard by yard, never stressed
And that's the art of the dress!

Rarity: That's it. Keep them closed. Don't look. Okay, you can look now! These are your new outfits. What do you think of your old duds now, Applejack? Pretty swanky, are they not? And Twilight! I made this dress for you and I designed each outfit theme to perfectly reflect each pony's unique personality. Oh, it took me forever to get the colors right on this one, Rainbow Dash, but I did it. Oh, and it turned out BEAUTIFUL, don't you think? Ooo, and I know you are going to love yours, Fluttershy. It just sings spring! And Pinkie Pie, look! Pink! Your favorite! Aren't they all amazing?
Twilight Sparkle: Wow... They're...
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, they're...
Applejack: They sure are... sumth'n.
Twilight Sparkle: Yes! Something.
Pinkie Pie: I love something! Something is my favorite!
Fluttershy: It's... nice.
Rarity: But what's the matter? Don't you like them?
Twilight Sparkle: They're very nice...
Applejack: And we're plum grateful 'cause you worked so hard on them.
Rainbow Dash: Mine's just not as cool as I was imagining. She asked.
Twilight Sparkle: I guess what we're all saying is that they're just not what we had in mind.
[collective yeah]
Rarity: That's okay. Not a problem. There's plenty more where that came from. They were only a first pass. You're my friends and I want you to be 110% satisfied. Not to worry, I'll redo them.
Fluttershy: Oh, Rarity. You don't have to do that. They're fine.
Rarity: I want them to be better that just fine. I want you to think they're absolutely perfect.
Applejack: Are you sure? I mean, we wouldn't wanna impose.
Rarity: Oh, it's no imposition. Really, I insist.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, in that case... Thank you again, Rarity.
Rarity: What have I gotten myself into?

Fluttershy: Hello? You wanted to see me, Rarity?
Rarity: Fluttershy! Your new-new gown's ready. I completely revised it and I know you're going to love it. What do you think?
Fluttershy: I... love it.
Rarity: Oh, you're just saying that.
Fluttershy: No, no. I do. It's... nice.
Rarity: "Nice"?
Fluttershy: Nice.
Rarity: If you don't like it, you should just tell me.
Fluttershy: Oh, but I do like it.
Rarity: Like it or love it?
Fluttershy: Um... both?
Rarity: Which is it?
Fluttershy: Please stop asking me this, I...
Rarity: Well, just tell me what you really think.
Fluttershy: No, that's okay...
Rarity: Tell me.
Fluttershy: No... it's fine...
Rarity: Tell me!
Fluttershy: I... like it...
Rarity: Tell me, tell me, tell-me-tell-me-tell-me!
Fluttershy: All right! Since you really wanna know... [inhales] The armscye's tight, the middy collar doesn't go with the shawl lapel, the hems are clearly machine-stitched, the pleats are uneven, the fabric looks like toile, you used a backstitch here when it clearly called for a topstitch or maybe a traditional blanket stitch, and the overdesign is reminiscent of prêt-à-porter and not true French haute couture. [pauses] But, uh... you know... um, whatever you want to do is fine.

Twilight Sparkle: Now, the stars on my belt need to be technically accurate. Orion has three stars on his belt, not four.

[Rarity]
Stitch by stitch, stitching it together
Deadline looms, don't you know the client's always right?
Even if my fabric choice was perfect
Gotta get them all done by tonight
Pinkie Pie, that color's too obtrusive
Wait until you see it in the light
I'm sewing them together!


Pinkie Pie: Don't you think my gown would be more "me" with some lollipops?
Rarity: Well, I think...
Pinkie Pie: Balloons?
Rarity: Well...
Pinkie Pie: DO IT!

[Rarity]
Hour by hour, one more change
I'm sewing them together, take great pains
Fluttershy, you're putting me in a bind
Rainbow Dash, what is on your mind?
Oh my gosh, there's simply not much time
Don't forget, Applejack's duds must shine


Dressmaking's easy, every customer's call
Brings a whole new revision
Have to pick up the pace, still hold to my vision


Twilight Sparkle: That constellation is Canis Major, not Minor.
Fluttershy: French haute couture, please.
Rarity: Ugh...

Applejack: What if it rains? Galoshes!

Pinkie Pie: More balloons! Oh no, that's too many balloons. More candy! Oh, less candy. Oh wait, I know. Streamers!
Rarity: Streamers?
Pinkie Pie: Whose dress is this?
Rarity: Streamers it is.

Rainbow Dash: What?
Rarity: Aren't you going to tell me to change something too?
Rainbow Dash: No, I just want my dress to be cool.
Rarity: Do you not like the color?
Rainbow Dash: The color's fine, just make it look cooler.
Rarity: Do you not like the shape?
Rainbow Dash: The shape's fine, just make the whole thing... you know, cooler. It needs to be about 20% cooler.

[Pinkie Pie]
All we ever want is indecision

[Rainbow Dash]
All we really like is what we know

[Twilight Sparkle]
Gotta balance style with adherence

[Fluttershy]
Making sure we make a good appearance

[Applejack]
Even if you simply have to fudge it

[All]
Make sure that it stays within our budget


[Rarity]
Got to overcome intimidation
Remember, it's all in the presentation!


Piece by piece, snip by snip
Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip
Bolt by bolt, primmed and pressed
Yard by yard, always stressed
And that's the art of the dress!

Rarity: Oh, Opal. These are the ugliest dresses I've ever made.

Rarity: Okay. I did exactly what each of you asked for. Now don't hold back. Let me know what you really think.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my!
Fluttershy: It's... perfect!
Rainbow Dash: It's cool!
Applejack: Why, they're the best duds I ever did see.
All: It's exactly what I asked for!
Twilight Sparkle: Thank you, Rarity.
Pinkie Pie: Are you as happy with them as we are? Huh? Huh? Huh?
Rarity: Well, I'm... happy that all of you are happy. I'm just relieved to finally be done.
Spike: You are never gonna believe this! You've heard of Hoity Toity?
Twilight Sparkle: The bigwig fashion hotshot in Canterlot?
Spike: Uh-huh. He heard about your fashion show. Well, maybe I happened to mention it to him... He's coming here all the way from Canterlot to see your work, Rarity!
Applejack: Whoa, Nelly! You could sell a ton o' dresses to this guy. Your business will be boomin'!
Twilight Sparkle: Wow!
Rainbow Dash: That's so cool!
Pinkie Pie: I don't believe it!
Rarity: Hoity Toity? He's coming here? To see THESE dresses?
Spike: Yep! Get ready for all of your dreams to come true.

Rarity: Oh. [gasp] There he is! [deep breaths] Okay. Relax, Rarity. Your friends like their outfits and so will he. UUUAAA, what's wrong with the lights?! Oh, yes. That means the show's starting. Good.
[music]
Spike: Since the beginning of time, the elite of Equestria have longed for pony fashions that truly expressed the essence of their very souls. Patiently waiting decades -- no, centuries -- for the perfect pony gown. Today, at long last, Equestria, your wait is over! Let's hear it for the breathtaking designs of Ponyville's own Rarity!
[ponies murmuring]
Applejack: Why's everypony lookin' at us like that?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh dear.
Rainbow Dash: You think we overdid it?
Applejack: Nah. [pause] Okay, maybe a little.
Hoity Toity: Oh, those amateurish designs look like a piled-on mishmash of everything but a kitchen sink! It's a travesty, it's what it is. Those outfits are the ugliest things I've ever seen, oh for shame. Who is responsible for subjecting our eyes to these horrors? Not to mention wasting my valuable time.
Rarity [to Opal]: Oh! Hide me.
Spike: Come on out and take a bow, Rarity. You worked really hard for this. Yes! Alright, woohoo! Go, Rarity!

Pinkie Pie: Rarity? You okay in there? You haven't come out for days.
Rarity: I'm never coming out! I can't show my face in Ponyville ever again! I used to be somepony. I used to be respected. I made dresses. Beautiful, beautiful dresses! But now everypony is laughing at me. I'm nothing but a laughing stock! [sobs]
Twilight Sparkle: You're not a laughing stock, Rarity...
Rainbow Dash: She kind of is.
Twilight Sparkle: Shhh! Come on out and talk to us.
Rarity: Leave me alone! I want to be alone! I want to wallow in... whatever it is that ponies are supposed to wallow in! Do ponies wallow in pity? Oh, listen to me, I don't even know what I'm supposed to wallow in! I'M SO PATHETIC!
Twilight Sparkle: Now what do we do?
Fluttershy: Uh... panic?
Rainbow Dash: That's your answer for everything!
Applejack: Well, we can't just leave Rarity like this.
Pinkie Pie: She'll become a crazy cat lady!
Twilight Sparkle: She only has one cat.
Pinkie Pie: Give her time.

Rarity: Exile... I guess technically I'd have to move away to live in exile. Where would I go? And what would I pack? Oh, it's going to take me forever to do all of that packing. What are you supposed to pack when you go to exile? Are you supposed to pack warm?
Opalescence: [meowing]
Rarity: Huh? Opal?
Opalescence: [meowing]
Rarity: Opal, how did you get up there? Hang on, you poor dear! Mama's coming!
Rarity: Rainbow Dash?! How dare you strand my poor Opal in a tree?
Rainbow Dash: Well, how else were we gonna get you out here to show you this?
Rarity: What is it? It's not... You... [gasp]
Pinkie Pie: We all finished your dress for you.
Applejack: Thanks to Fluttershy's freaky knowledge of sewing.
Fluttershy: Do you like it?
Rarity: Like it? Like it?!
Fluttershy: Uh-uh. She doesn't like it.
Rarity: No, I don't like it.
Everypony: Awwww...
Rarity: I LOVE IT!
Everypony: Yay!
Rarity: You ponies did an amazing job. It's exactly the way I imagined it.
Fluttershy: We just followed your brilliant design.
Twilight Sparkle: Like we should have let you do for our outfits. Those first dresses you designed were perfect.
Pinkie Pie: We're so super sorry.
Rainbow Dash: You worked really hard to make our dresses exactly the way we wanted them. We all saw how well that turned out.
Rarity: Oh, I forgive you.
Applejack: Well, that's mighty big of you.
Rarity: But my whole career is still ruined!
Applejack: Oh, right. That.
Twilight Sparkle: Maybe not.
Hoity Toity: All right, I haven't got all day.

Hoity Toity: Take two.
[music: Twilight's dress]
Hoity Toity: Hello... Oh, this can't be the same designer.
[music: Applejack's dress]
Hoity Toity: Simply magnificent! And I suddenly have a fierce craving for some Dutch apple pie, candied apples on a stick, apple turnovers, apple cobbler...
[music: Pinkie Pie's dress]
Hoity Toity: Brilliant!
[thunder]
[music: Rainbow Dash's dress]
Hoity Toity: Oh, spectacular!
[music: Fluttershy's dress]
Hoity Toity: Now this is a fashion show! All of these dresses are absolutely amazing. Who is responsible? Step forward, show yourself!
[music: Rarity's dress]
Hoity Toity: Brava! Brava! Magnifico! Encore!
Rarity: Oh, thank you. Thank you! Oh, thank you so much!

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
This week my very talented friend Rarity learned that if you try to please everypony, you often times end up pleasing nopony, especially yourself. And I learned this: when somepony offers to do you a favor, like making you a beautiful dress, you shouldn't be overly critical of something generously given to you. In other words, you shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth. [giggles]
Hoity Toity: Rarity, my congratulations to you on a most impressive fashion debut. Would you do me the great honor of allowing me to feature your couture in my Best of the Best Boutique in Canterlot?
Rarity: [gasp]
Hoity Toity: Now, I'll need you to make a dozen of each dress for me by next Tuesday.

[music]
[credits]

[music]
Twilight Sparkle: Tuh! Nuh! Uh! Nyuh!
[magic chimes]
Twilight Sparkle: Eyes over here, Spike!
Spike: Uh, sorry.
Twilight Sparkle: For this to work, it's crucial we keep our concentration totally on the-
Pinkie Pie: Ooh!
Spike: Nyuh!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! This magic needs our full attention to make it happen. There's no other way!
Spike: I can't help it. Look!
[various sound effects]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, never mind her. She's just being Pinkie Pie.
Spike: Super-extra Pinkie Pie today.
[eerie music plays]
Pinkie Pie: Hmm... Twitchy twitcha twitcha twitch.
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie Pie? What in the wide-wide-world of Equestria are you up to?
Pinkie Pie: Oh! It's my tail! It's my tail! It's a-twitch a-twitchin'! And you know what that means!
Twilight Sparkle: Actually, Pinkie, I haven't the slightest idea.
Pinkie Pie: The twitchin' means my Pinkie Sense is telling me that stuff's gonna start falling! You should better duck for cover.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Pinkie, it's not gonna rain. Why there's barely even a cloud in the-ugh!
[frog croaks]
Pinkie Pie: He just said "nice catch" in Frog.
[frog croaks]

[theme song]

Fluttershy: Oh, I'm so, so sorry. You okay, Twilight Sparkle? I just couldn't stand to see the pond getting so over-populated, what with the frogs all hopping into each other and all, so I decided to fly as many as I can on over to Froggy Bottom Bogg.
Twilight Sparkle: Of course you did.
Fluttershy: [muffled] Bye-bye!
Pinkie Pie: Um... Twilight? You gotta little somethin' on your face there.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, really? Did your Pinkie Sense tell you that, too?
Pinkie Pie: Nah! I could just see it. La-la-la-la-la...
Twilight Sparkle: C'mon, Spike, let's continue our practice session where there's a little less commotion.
Spike: Wow! That was amazing! Pinkie Pie predicted something would fall, and it did!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, come on. She said that something would fall, and a frog just happened to fall right around the same time. A coincidence, nothing else to it.
Pinkie Pie: My tail! My tail! Twitch-a-twitch! Twitch-a-twitch! Somethin' else is gonna fall!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Pinkie, please. Nothing else is gonna fa-AAAH!
Spike: Oh no, Twilight fell! Is it... safe to go help her?
Pinkie Pie: It's okay, my tail stopped twitching. La-la-la-la-la, la-la-la...
Spike: Ha ha! That was amazing!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, please.
Applejack: Uh, Twilight? Why are you hanging out in a ditch?
Spike: Because, Pinkie Pie predicted it!
Twilight Sparkle: Honestly, Spike, she did not. Two coincidences in a row like this may be unlikely, but it's still easier to believe than twitchy tails that predict the future.
Applejack: [gasp] Twitchy tail? Pinkie Sense? Woah! Nyu-uh!
Spike: Don't worry, it's safe. Prediction already came true.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, wait. Don't tell me you believe in this stuff, too?
Applejack: I know it doesn't make much sense, but those of us who have been in Ponyville a while, have learned over time that, if Pinkie's-a-twichin', you better listen.
Pinkie Pie: My ears are flopping! My ears are flopping!
Spike: Nyuh! What does that mean?!
Pinkie Pie: I'll start a bath for you.
Twilight Sparkle: Huh? [chuckles] A bath? This thing keeps on getting more ridiculous by the minute!
[splash]
Twilight Sparkle: [grumble]

Twilight Sparkle: Phhhhft.
Pinkie Pie: Sooo, basically, it works like this: I get different, little, niggling feelings and they mean different things. Like when my back is itchy, it means it's my lucky day. And, when my knee gets pinchy, that means something scary's about to happen.
Twilight Sparkle: Is your knee pinchy now?
Pinkie Pie: No, but my shoulder's achy. That means there's an alligator in the tub.
[splash]
Twilight Sparkle: [scream] How come your knee didn't get pinchy?! That isn't just scary, it's downright dangerous!
Pinkie Pie: No, it's not, silly! This is my pet alligator, Gummy. He's got no teeth. See? Haha!
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, okay... I get it.

Twilight Sparkle: Well, I still don't believe all this... "special power" stuff. It's just a bunch of mumbo-jumbo.
Pinkie Pie: What's not to believe? You do magic, what's the difference?
Twilight Sparkle: Huge! For one thing, [clears throat] magic is something you study and practice. It only happens when you decide to do it, and it's meant to make something specific that you choose to happen, happen. With you, uh, it makes no sense at all!
Pinkie Pie: That's so not true, Twilight! Sometimes it's a bunch of random things happening to my body at random times that supposedly predict the future. I call 'em "combos".
Twilight Sparkle: Combos?
Pinkie Pie: Sure! You know, like, ear flop, then knee twitch, then eye flutter. That means the sky is about to be graced with a beautiful rainbow!
Twilight Sparkle: Yeah, sure.
Pinkie Pie: Uh-oh, I feel a combo coming on. Ear flop, eye flutter, knee twitch!
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh!
[beeping noises of a truck backing up]
Twilight Sparkle: Ughhh... You said that combo meant "beautiful rainbow".
Pinkie Pie: Oh no-no-no-no-no. You're thinking of an ear flop, then knee twitch, then eye flutter. This was an ear flop, then eye flutter, then knee twitch. That usually means "look out for opening doors". You okay?
Twilight Sparkle: I don't believe this.
Pinkie Pie: You don't believe because you don't understand.
Twilight Sparkle: Hmm...

Twilight Sparkle: Okay. Now when you get another twitch, we'll have all kinds of scientific information.
Pinkie Pie: Okey-dokey-lokey!
[steam stack whistling periodically]
Twilight Sparkle: Any twitches yet?
Pinkie Pie: Nopey-dopey!
Twilight Sparkle: Now? Anything?
Pinkie Pie: Wait! Hold on! Uhh, no.
Twilight Sparkle: Are you kidding me?! After a whole day of non-stop twitching, now that I've got you all hooked up, you're not getting a single one?
Pinkie Pie: I don't control it, they just come and go.
Twilight Sparkle: That makes no sense!
Pinkie Pie: Sometimes you just have to believe in things, even when you can't figure 'em out.
Twilight Sparkle: I will not believe in anything I cannot explain.
Pinkie Pie: Wait, hold on, I'm feeling something...
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my gosh, what? What is it?!
[Pinkie Pie's stomach growls]
Pinkie Pie: It's my tummy! That usually means I'm hungry! Let's eat!
Twilight Sparkle: Urgh... You know what? [bite] [snap] Just forget it! I don't need to know if this is real or not. I don't need to understand it! I don't even care!
Pinkie Pie: Okey-dokey-lokey. [gasp] Uh-oh. [gasp] Hu-bu-bu-bu-buh!
[smash]
Spike: Pinkie? Have you seen Twilight?
Pinkie Pie: Uh-huh.
Spike: Twilight? What are ya doing back there?
Twilight Sparkle: Rrrrgh... Did you two plan this?
Spike: Plan what?
Twilight Sparkle: Urgh! This is ridiculous. This can't be happening. This makes no sense. I have to figure this out.

[frog croaks]
[frogs croaking]

Pinkie Pie: [giggling] [sniff] Mmm... [giggling]
[tribal music]
Spike: Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: Ah!
Spike: Woah-oh-uh!
Twilight Sparkle: Honestly, Spike, don't you know better than to sneak up on ponies?
Spike: Oh, sorry, but, um, well, isn't that what you're doing?
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] No! I'm doing scientific research. I'm observing Pinkie Pie, scientific name: Pinkius Pieicus, in its natural habitat.
Spike: Pinkius-whoicus? Hh!
Twilight Sparkle: There's something fishy going on with the whole twitchy prediction thing, and I'm getting to the bottom of it. So, shh. Come on, Pinkius Pieicus is on the move.

Pinkie Pie: [humming]
Twilight Sparkle: Hm... Itchy nose...
Pinkie Pie: [gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: A-ha, that makes no sense. See? She's hiding like something's about to fall from the sky, but a twitchy tail means something's gonna fall from the sky, not an itchy nose.
[theremin music]
[swarm of bees buzzing]
Twilight Sparkle: This proves...
Spike: [gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: ...perhaps conclusively, that--
Spike: Gah!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Where are you going? I'm trying to teach you the value of scientific--
[swarm buzzing]
[comical "sting" noises]
Twilight Sparkle: Ow! Ouch! Ow! [whimper]

Spike: What's she doing now?
Twilight Sparkle: Smelling a flower.
Spike: Holy guacamole! I wonder what that means?
Twilight Sparkle: Probably that the flower smells good. Wait. I'm getting something. Ear flop, eye flutter, knee twitch.
Spike: Hold on... You told me that's the combo that says "watch out for opening doors"!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh-ho. You really, really believe this stuff, don't you? Here, let me show you there's nothing to be afraid of. You see? I promise you there's nothing to fear from that-- Wo-o-ah! Ow! Ugh! Ow! Ow!
Applejack: Twilight! You came to visit my new apple cellar, how nice. Twi? You okay? Uh, Twi?

Spike: Here, let me help you.
Twilight Sparkle: Okay, take this down: twitchy tail.
Spike: Twitchy tail? [gasp] TWITCHY TAIL!
[theremin music, growing louder]
Twilight Sparkle: Hush, Spike! We can't let Pinkie know we're here, remember?
Spike: Something's gonna fall, something's gonna fall! Run for your lives. Ah-ha-ha!
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, Spike honestly, you're overreact--
[crack]
[clang]
[smash]
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh!

Pinkie Pie: [humming] Hey, Applejack. Whatcha doin'?
Applejack: Takin' more apples to my new apple cellar. How 'bout you, Pinkie? Whatchu doin'?
Pinkie Pie: Oh, letting Twilight secretly follow me all day without me knowing.
Twilight Sparkle: You mean you knew all along?! Why didn't you tell me?
Pinkie Pie: [giggles] Silly, that would've spoiled the secret!
Twilight Sparkle: Urgh!
Spike: Tail... still twitching?
Pinkie Pie: All done, clear skies from here on in, as far as I can tell-- Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
Spike: Oh no! What does that one mean?
Pinkie Pie: Dunno, never gotten any like it before, but whatever that shudder's about, it's a doozy. Something you never expect to happen is gonna happen! Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu hu-bu-bu-bu! And its gonna happen... at Froggy Bottom Bogg!
Applejack: [gasp] That's where Fluttershy's headed!
Spike: Oh no! Is it about her?
Pinkie Pie: Uh, I'm not sure.
Applejack: We better go and make sure she's okay.
Twilight Sparkle: Calm down, everypony. All we know right now is that Pinkie Pie just got a case of the shivers. That's all.
Spike: Guh-- Hey! I thought you didn't believe in this stuff?
Twilight Sparkle: I don't. I just want to be there to see the look on Pinkie's face when we find out nothing's wrong.
Pinkie Pie: Okey-dokey!

[gate creaks]
[frogs croak]

Pinkie Pie: [shivers] Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
Twilight Sparkle: Cold? Need a jacket or something?
Pinkie Pie: No thanks, I'm fine. [shivers] Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
Spike: So... Whadda'ya think happened to Fluttershy?
Applejack: I hope nothin'.
Spike: I know, but, whadda'ya think happened?
Applejack: I'm tryin' not to think about it.
Spike: Me too. But I'm thinkin' about it anyway. Like, what if she exploded?
Applejack: Just exploded? For no reason?
Spike: Yeah, like boom!
Pinkie Pie: Woah!
Spike: I know.
Pinkie Pie: What if... What if she exploded, and then... and then exploded again!?
Spike: Can you do that? Can you explode twice?
Applejack: Of course not.
Spike: But what if she exploded, and exploded again, and then-- ugh!
Twilight Sparkle: Will you two stop? She's fine, I'm sure of it.
Applejack: I hope you're right, for Fluttershy's sake. Look! There's Froggy Bottom Bogg!
[dragonfly buzzing]

Applejack: Fluttershy?
Pinkie Pie: Fluttershy? [gasp]
Spike: Fluttershy! You're okay!
Fluttershy: Of course.
Applejack: Phew, what a relief.
Pinkie Pie: I'm so glad everything's alright.
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry, I know it's not nice to gloat but... AHA! I told you there was nothing to worry about, and I was right. Pinkie Pie said whatever she was shuddering about was a [cough] doozy, and [cough] and the only [cough] doozy here is how right I am.
Applejack: Um... Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie's made a lot of predictions today but [cough] ugh, what is that smell? But what we've shown here is that there's no point in believing [cough] in anything you can't see for yourself.
Spike: W-well t-then, s-see what's b-b-behind you, Twilight!
[hydra growls]
Twilight Sparkle: I see it... But I don't believe it!
[hydra roars]

Pinkie Pie: Is that a hydra!?
Applejack: Who cares? RUN!
[ponies screaming]
Pinkie Pie: [whimper]
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie! Come on!
Pinkie Pie: Ooph! [pant]
Fluttershy: Oh, I'm so sorry.
[hydra roars]
Fluttershy: Ah!
[hydra head laughs]
[ponies and Spike screaming]
Twilight Sparkle: Everypony up that hill!
Spike: He-e-elp!
Twilight Sparkle: Coming, Spike! Hang on!
[hydra growls]
Twilight Sparkle: I think we're gonna make it.
Spike: But Pinkie's still shuddering!
Pinkie Pie: Oh, lookie there, it stopped. O-h-h-h, t-h-e-r-e i-t i-s a-g-a-i-n.
[ponies gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh, he'll be up here in no time! Quick, one at a time, cross!
Spike: Nyu-uh! Uh, do you know any spells for turning a hydra into a mouse?
Twilight Sparkle: No.
Spike: How about a squirrel?
Twilight Sparkle: No!
Spike: How 'bout--
Twilight Sparkle: No small rodents of any kind!
Spike: That's too bad.
Fluttershy: A hop, skip, and a... jump!
Spike: Woah-ho!
Pinkie Pie: Whoa-oa-oa-oa-oa!
Applejack: [grunt]
Twilight: He's too close. I'll distract him. You two go, now!
[whoosh]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh... What would a brave pony like Rainbow Dash do? CHAAARGE!
[hydra chirps]
[smack]
Pinkie Pie: T-t-t-twilight!
[hydra chirps]
[crash]
[crumble]
[ponies gasp]
[hydra roars]
Pinkie Pie: T-t-t-twilight! You have to jump!
Twilight Sparkle: I'll never make it!
Pinkie Pie: You'll be fine!
Twilight Sparkle: I will not!
[hydra roars]
Pinkie Pie: Its your only ho-o-ope! You have to take a leap of faith!
Twilight Sparkle: [gulp]
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: Y-ugh! No! Oh no! Noooo! WA-A-A-AH! Ugh! Blegh!
[ponies cheer]
Pinkie Pie: I knew you could do it, Twilight!
Twilight Sparkle: I don't know how it happened; coincidence, dumb luck, or what, but you said there'd be a doozy here at Froggy Bottom Bogg, and I'd say we just had ourselves one heck of a doozy. I mean that hydra--
Pinkie Pie: [shudders]
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie?
Pinkie Pie: That wasn't it.
Twilight Sparkle: Huh?
Spike: What wasn't what?
Applejack: What are you talking about, Pink?
Pinkie Pie: The hydra wasn't the doozy.
[hydra blows raspberry]
Pinkie Pie: I'm still getting the shudders. Oo-o-oh, oo-o-oh. You see? There it is again. Whatever the doozy was at Froggy Bottom Bogg, my Pinkie Sense says it still hasn't happened.
Twilight Sparkle: Huh? But I-- WHAT?! The hydra wasn't the doozy?! How could it not be the doozy?! What could be doozier than that?!
Pinkie Pie: Dunno, but it just wasn't it.
[kettle whistles]
Twilight Sparkle: Rrrgh... [flames and growls] Ooh... I give up...
Spike: Give what up, Twi?
Twilight Sparkle: The fight. I can't fight it anymore. I don't understand how, why, or what, but Pinkie sense somehow... makes sense. I don't see how it does, but it just does. Just because I don't understand doesn't mean its not true.
Pinkie Pie: Y-y-y-you m-m-mean you b-b-b-believe?
Twilight Sparkle: Eyup, I guess I do.
Pinkie Pie: Oo-woo-oo-oo-oo, woo-oo-oo-oo-oh, woo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo-ooh. Ooh! [gasp] That was it. That's the doozy.
Spike: Bbrrbbrrbbrr.
Twilight Sparkle: What? What is?
Pinkie Pie: You believing. I never expected that to happen. That was the doozy, oh and, oh what a doozy of a doozy it was! La-la-la-la-la...

[giggling]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, good, Spike, you're here. Take a letter.
Spike: With pleasure, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia, I'm happy to report that-- Spike, what have I been saying about focus?
Spike: I know, but I... Well...
Twilight Sparkle: What's wrong, Spike, never thought you'd see me with an umbrella hat on?
Spike: Not really, no.
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie's tail's a-twitchin'. What else can I do?
[laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: I am happy to report that I now realize there are wonderful things in this world you just can't explain, but that doesn't necessarily make them any less true. It just means you have to choose to believe in them, and sometimes it takes a friend to show you the way.
Pinkie Pie: Honk!
Spike: Honk.
Twilight Sparkle: Always your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
Pinkie Pie: There it goes again.
Twilight Sparkle: I wonder what's gonna drop outta the sky this time?
Pinkie Pie: You never know.
Spike: [inhales]
[jet engine sound]
[crash]
Spike: Twitchy tail? Holy guacamole!

[music]
[credits]

Rainbow Dash: Now, what have we learned?
Fluttershy: Loss of control. 
Rainbow Dash: Good.
Fluttershy: Screaming and hollering.
Rainbow Dash: Yes, and most importantly?
Fluttershy: Passion!
Rainbow Dash: Right! So now that you know the elements of a good cheer, let's hear one.
Fluttershy: [inhales] Yay.
Rainbow Dash: ... Ugh. You're gonna cheer for me like that? Louder.
Fluttershy: Yay.
Rainbow Dash: Louder!
Fluttershy: Yay.
Rainbow Dash: LOUDER!
Fluttershy: [deep breath] [quietly] Yaaay.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh...
Fluttershy: Too loud?

[theme song]

Fluttershy: Yay.
Rainbow Dash: [deep breath] And now, phase one of my routine.
Fluttershy: Wooo.
Rainbow Dash: Phase two.
Fluttershy: Way to go.
Rainbow Dash: Here we go. Phase three. The sonic rainboom. C'mon! [grunt] Uh-oh. [scream]

Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] Last one. Thank you so much for helping me clean up all these books guys. It was a crazy week of studying.
Rainbow Dash: [screams]
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: [grunt]
Pinkie Pie: [grunt]
Applejack: [grunt]
Fluttershy: Rainbow Dash, you rock! Woohoo. [gasp] Did my cheering do that?
Rainbow Dash: Hehe. Sorry about that ladies. THAT was a truly feeble performance.
Fluttershy: Actually, it wasn't all bad. I particularly liked it when you made the clouds spin.
Rainbow Dash: Ugh. I'm not talking about my performance, I'm talking about yours. That feeble cheering!
Twilight Sparkle: What are you two arguing about?
Fluttershy: Were we arguing? I'm sorry.
Rainbow Dash: [grunt] I wish you guys could come to Cloudsdale to see me compete in the Best Young Flyer Competition.
Twilight Sparkle: What's that?
Pinkie Pie: It's where all the greatest Pegasus flyers get together and show off their different flying styles! Some are fast! [makes car sounds] And some are graceful. Woah, woah, WooooaaAAAAHH!
Applejack: Golly. I'd love to see you strut yer stuff in that competition.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah. I wish you guys could be there. Fluttershy's a great support, but her cheering isn't exactly inspirational.
Pinkie Pie: OOH! I'd love to see you make a sonic rainboom! It's like, the most coolest thing ever! Even though I've never actually seen it, but I mean COME ON! It's a sonic rainboom! How not cool could it possibly not be?!
Twilight Sparkle: What's a sonic rainboom?
Pinkie Pie: You really need to get out more. The sonic rainboom is legendary! When a Pegasus like Rainbow Dash gets going sooo fast... BOOM! A sonic boom and a rainbow can happen all at once!
Applejack: And Rainbow Dash here's the only pony to ever pull it off!
Rainbow Dash: It was a long time ago... I was just a filly.
Pinkie Pie: Yeah, but you're gonna do it again, right?
Rainbow Dash: Are... you kidding? I'm the greatest flyer to ever come out of Cloudsdale! I could do sonic rainbooms in my sleep.
Twilight Sparkle: Wow. If you pull that off, you'll win the crown for sure!
Rainbow Dash: The grand prize is an entire day with the Wonderbolts. A whole day of flying with my life-long heroes... It'll be a dream come true!
Fluttershy: Yay.
Rainbow Dash: I'm gonna go rest up. Don't wanna over prepare myself, y'know. Hehe. YOU, on the other hand, better keep practicing. I need a cheering section to match my spectacular performance.
Fluttershy: She's practiced that move a hundred times, and she's never even come close to doing it. I don't know if I can cheer loud enough to help her.
Twilight Sparkle: Well, guess we better get this cleaned up... again.
Rarity: Go on, go on.
Twilight Sparkle: Go on what?
Rarity: Find a spell that will get us wingless ponies into Cloudsdale. Didn't you see how nervous she was?
Applejack: Nervous? Have you spit yer bit or somethin'? She was tootin' her own horn louder then the brass section of a marching band!
Rarity: Oh, puh-lease. I have put on enough fashion shows to recognize stage fright when I see it. We've got to find a way to be there for her. Now go on!
Twilight Sparkle: Owaa! Ugh. How am I supposed to find a flight spell in this mess?
Pinkie Pie: A flight spell? One sec. Page twenty-seven.
Applejack: How'd you do that?
Pinkie Pie: It landed on my face when Rainbow Dash knocked me into the bookcase.
Twilight Sparkle: Here it is! A spell that will allow Earth ponies to fly for three days. Ooh, it looks really difficult... I'm not sure I can do it.
Rarity: You've got to try!
Twilight Sparkle: Okay... But who's gonna volunteer to be the test subject?
Rarity: I will! For Rainbow Dash, I will go first.
Twilight Sparkle: Here goes. [grunts] [screams]
Applejack: [gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: I think it worked!

Rainbow Dash: You've got to learn to be assertive, Fluttershy. Don't be afraid to speak up.
"Dumb-Bell": Well well well. What do we have here?
Hoops: It's our old friend Rainbow Crash!
"Dumb-Bell": Get kicked outta any flight schools lately?
"Dumb-Bell", Hoops, and "Score": [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: I didn't get kicked out.
"Dumb-Bell": Face it, Rainbow Crash. Flight school had too many rules, and not enough naptimes for you.
Hoops: Huh, ask her about the sonic rainboom.
"Dumb-Bell": That's nothing but an old mare's tale. You don't have the skills to try something like that.
Fluttershy: Now wait just a minute! Oh, I'm sorry. I'm trying to be more assertive. Anyhow... She is going to do a sonic rainboom!
"Dumb-Bell": No she's not, 'cause there's no such thing!
Fluttershy: Then show up at the Cloudeseum and see for yourself! ...If you're free.
"Dumb-Bell", Hoops, and "Score": [laughs]
Hoops: [within laughter] Yeah, I'll be free.
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, don't worry. We'll be there!
Hoops: See you then, Rainbow Crash!
Fluttershy: Did you see that? I was so assertive!
Rainbow Dash: [sigh] Those guys are right. I'll never be able to do it.
Fluttershy: But, Rainbow Dash. Just because you've failed the sonic rainboom a hundred thousand times in practice doesn't mean you won't be able to do it in front of an entire stadium, full of impatient, super-critical sportsfan ponies.
Rainbow Dash: Aaaaaah! What do I do?! Everypony's gonna see me fail! The Wonderbolts will never let a loser like me join. Princess Celestia will probably banish me to the Everfree Forest! My life is ruined!
Fluttershy: Rare...
Rainbow Dash: Rare?! The sonic rainboom is WAY more than rare!
Fluttershy: Rarity?
Rainbow Dash: Rarity! Are you... flying?!
Rarity: I most certainly am! Aren't my wings smashing?! Twilight made them for me. I just adore them! Why so shocked? We couldn't leave our favorite flyer without a big cheering section!
Rainbow Dash: "We"?.. I... I can't believe it!
Fluttershy: It's incredible!
Rainbow Dash: This is so cool! You guys made it!
Pinkie Pie: Sure did!
Rainbow Dash: WAIT!.. How'd you do that? Only Pegasus ponies can walk on clouds.
Pinkie Pie: Haha. Pretty cool, huh?
Twilight Sparkle: I found a spell that makes temporary wings, but it was too difficult to do more than once. So I found an easier spell that lets the rest of us walk on clouds.
Applejack: And we came to cheer you to victory!
Rainbow Dash: To be honest, I was starting to get just the teeniest, tiniest bit nervous. But I feel a LOT better now that you guys are here. Hey, we've got some time before the competition. Why don't Fluttershy and I show you around Cloudsdale?
Rarity, Applejack, Twilight Sparkle and Pinkie Pie: Yes!

Rainbow Dash: Here it is: the greatest city in the sky!
Group: Oooh! Aaah!
Rarity: [in mirror] Oooh! Aaah!
Rainbow Dash: Uhh... Some of the greatest Pegasi in history came from Cloudsdale!
Rarity: Oh, wait for me!
[jackhammer sounds]
Worker Pegasus: Those wings are gorgeous!
Rarity: Why, thank you!
Twilight Sparkle: Be careful with those wings, Rarity. They're made from gossamer and morning dew, and they're incredibly delicate.
Rarity: Don't worry, Twilight. I'm sure they can't get worn out from too much attention.
Applejack: Since we're up here, I'd sure like to get a look at where the weather's made.
Rainbow Dash: Great idea! C'mon, girls. To the weather factory!

[thunder]
Rainbow Dash: This is where they make the snowflakes. Each one is hoofmade. As you can see, it's a delicate operation.
Rarity: [gasp] Ooh, the snowflakes look even better from up here.
[snowflake workers grumbling and yelling]
Rainbow Dash: We better move on before Rarity ruins winter and causes a drought.

Rainbow Dash: And here's where they make the rainbows!
Pinkie Pie: [slurp] [pants] Spicyyyyyy!...
Applejack: [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, rainbows aren't really known for their flavor.
[off-screen: Whoa!]
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, where'd you get those amazing wings? I want a pair!
Rarity: Hmm... Yeah, I guess I could see that.
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, hey look, it's Rainbow Crash again!
Hoops: Heheheyeah! Rainbow... Umm... Eyah... Crash!
Rainbow Dash: Rarity! What're you doing talking to these guys?
Rarity: Oh, they were just admiring my wings, Rainbow Dash.
"Dumb-Bell": Yeah, you should forget the sonic rainboom and just get yourself some wings like these!
"Dumb-Bell", Hoops, and "Score": [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: Oohh...
Fluttershy: Uhh... C'mon, girls. Why don't we go see how clouds are made? Don't listen to them. You're gonna win that competition for sure!
Rainbow Dash: Are you kidding? I can't DO the sonic rainboom, and just look at these boring, plain old feathered wings. I'm doomed!

[group of workers awing at Rarity]
Rarity: What, these old things? Go ahead, everypony. Photos are encouraged.
Twilight Sparkle: Rarity, we're supposed to be helping Rainbow Dash relax, remember? Put your wings away and stop showing off!
Rarity: Oh, pfft. How can you ask me to put away perfection?
[workers awing]
Rarity: Waa-haa-haa!
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash, are you okay? You don't look so good.
Rainbow Dash: [panting] Of course! Why wouldn't I be okay? Everyone's so in love with Rarity's wings that they won't even notice when I totally blow it in the Best Young Flyer's Competition.
Rainbowshine: Hey! There's an idea! YOU should enter the competition!
"Nana Knits": Yeah! I could watch you fly all day long!
Rarity: There really isn't anypony who uses their wings quite like me. Perhaps I should compete.
Rainbow Dash: WHAT?!
[workers continue awing at Rarity]
Rainbow Dash: What am I gonna DO?! I'll never win the competition now...

[trumpet fanfare]
[crowd cheering]
[knock, knock, knock]
Rarity: I'm going to be awhile!
Pinkie Pie: [giggles]
"Dumb-Bell", Hoops, and "Score": [laughs]
Rainbow Dash: [gulp]
"Madden": Fillies and gentlecolts! Please rise and join me in welcoming our beloved Princess Celestia!
[fanfare and applause]
"Madden": Please welcome our celebrity judges for the Best Young Flyer Competition: the Wonderbolts!
[crowd cheering]
"Madden": And now, let's find out who will take the prize as this year's best young flyer!
"Lucy Packard": Okay, contestant number one, you're up.
Rainbow Dash: EYAH!
"Lucy Packard": Okay, number two, let's go.
Rainbow Dash: Umm...
"Lucy Packard": C'mon, c'mon, we ain't got all day!
Rainbow Dash: She's talking to you!
Dr. Hooves: Oh. Umm... Oh, I guess that's me!
"Lucy Packard": Okay, number four, time to go.
Rarity: I'm number four, and I need just one more itsy-bitsy minute. Be a dear and have somepony go ahead of me, hmm?
"Lucy Packard": Look, I don't care who it is, but somepony's gotta go on!
Meadow Song: Let's DO THIS!
Rainbow Dash: Uhh... What am I gonna do?

Twilight Sparkle: I loved number seven. Doing fifteen barrel-rolls in a row can't be easy.
Fluttershy: My favorite is number ten. She just looked like such a nice pony.
Applejack: Hmm.. Wonder how come we haven't seen Rainbow Dash or Rarity yet. The competition's almost over.
"Lucy Packard": Number fifteen, let's go!
Rarity: Rarity... is ready!
"Lucy Packard": Look, ladies. I don't know what to tell you. There's only time for one more performance. If you both want to compete, you'll just have to go out there together!
Rarity: Well, Rainbow Dash? Shall we?
Rainbow Dash: [scared babbling]
"Madden": And now, for our final competitor of the day, contestant number fifteen! Uhh... And apparently contestant number four...
[crowd cheering]
Rarity: Good luck, Rainbow Dash. Just do your best. I hope you don't mind, but I took the liberty of changing our music. That "rock and roll" doesn't really match my wings.
[classical music]
Rainbow Dash: [gulp] C'mon, Rainbow Dash. You can do this. Just remember the routine. Phase one.
[crowd cheering]
Rainbow Dash: Oof. WAAAH!
Hoops: Nice work, Rainbow Crash!
"Dumb-Bell", Hoops and "Score": [laugh]
Rainbow Dash: Time for phase two.
Fluttershy: Look! Phase two is working.
[ponies cheering]
Princess Celestia: [gasp]
Rarity: And now for my grand finale. I will fly right up to the sun and beam my beautiful wings over the whole city of Cloudsdale! [gasp and squeal] They'll be talking about it for years!
Rainbow Dash: Looks like this is my last chance to turn things around. Phase three. The sonic [gulp] rainboom. Wings, don't fail me now!
[crowd gasps]
Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
Rarity: [panting] Look upon me, Equestria, for I... am... Rarity!
[crowd oohs]
Rarity: Uh-oh. [screams]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no! Her wings evaporated into thin air!
Rarity: [screams]
Misty Fly: Ooh!
Soarin: Aah!
Spitfire: Uuh!
Rarity: [continues screaming]
Rainbow Dash: Hold on, Rarity! I'm coming!
Rarity: [more screaming]
Fluttershy: Oh, I can't look!
Rarity: [gasp]
Pinkie Pie, Applejack, and Twilight Sparkle: [gasp]
Rainbow Dash: [grunts]
Fluttershy: A sonic rainboom! She did it! She did it! WOOO!
Rainbow Dash: Whoa.
[crowd cheering]
Fluttershy: A sonic rainboom! Wooo! YEAH!
Rainbow Dash: I did it. I did it!
Rarity: [sigh] You sure did. Oh thank you, Rainbow Dash. You saved my life!
Rainbow Dash: Oh yeah. I did that too. Ha, best day EVER!

Rarity: I want to apologize to all of you for getting so carried away with my... beautiful wings. I guess I just lost my head.
Fluttershy: It's okay.
Applejack: Oh, don't worry about it, kiddo.
Pinkie Pie: We still love you.
Rarity: And I'm especially sorry that I was so thoughtless as to jump into the contest at the last minute after you had worked so hard to win it. Can you ever ever forgive me?
Rainbow Dash: Aw, it's okay. Everything turned out alright, right? I just wish I could have met the Wonderbolts when they were awake.
Rainbow Dash: [gasp] OhmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohMYGOSH!
Spitfire: So you're the little pony who saved our lives. We really wanted to meet you, and say thanks.
Rainbow Dash: Ohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygosh!
Twilight Sparkle: Princess.
Princess Celestia: Hello, Twilight Sparkle, and hello to your friends too.
Rarity: Princess Celestia, I am sorry I ruined the competition. Rainbow Dash here really is the best flyer in Equestria.
Princess Celestia: I know she is, my dear. That's why, for her incredible act of bravery and her spectacular sonic rainboom, I'm presenting the grand prize for best young flyer to this year's winner, Miss Rainbow Dash!
[crowd cheers]
Rainbow Dash: Ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh!
Princess Celestia: So Twilight Sparkle, did you learn anything about friendship from this experience?
Twilight Sparkle: I did Princess, but I think Rarity learned even more than me.
Rarity: I certainly did. I learned how important it is to keep your hooves on the ground, and be there for your friends.
Princess Celestia: Excellent. Well done, Rarity.
Rainbow Dash: This really is the best day EVER!
"Dumb-Bell": Uhh, hey, Rainbow Crash.
Hoops: Dash!
"Dumb-Bell": Oh! Uhh... Sorry. Rainbow Dash. Uhh, we just wanted to congratulate you on winning the competition.
Hoops: That sonic rainboom was awesome!
Rainbow Dash: Heh, thanks, guys.
"Dumb-Bell": Uhh, we're really sorry we gave you such a hard time before.
Rainbow Dash: Aww, that's okay. Don't worry about it.
"Dumb-Bell": Hey. Do you want to hang out with us? Maybe you could show us how you did that incredible trick!
Rainbow Dash: Sorry, boys... But I've got plans!

[music]
[credits]

Rarity: Where'd I put that? Ohh, I thought I already...
[clatter]
Rarity: Ohh, and I can't forget I've got to... oh, how am I ever gonna get this done?
Sweetie Belle: Are you sure I can't help? I could--
Rarity: No!
Sweetie Belle: Maybe just a--
Rarity: No thanks!
Sweetie Belle: How about--
Rarity: Just stand over there.
Sweetie Belle: But--
Rarity: Where you'll be out of the way. Ribbon, ribbon! Where's the ribbon?!
Sweetie Belle: I got it!
[creaking]
Sweetie Belle: Whoa!
Rarity: [gasps]
[clattering noises]
Rarity: Aah!
[crashing noises]
Sweetie Belle: Um, I-I'll just go and stand over there, where I'll be... out of the way.
[zip sound]
Rarity: [sigh]

[theme song]

Sweetie Belle: Won't you at least let me help you clean up?
Rarity: No. You've helped me quite enough.
Sweetie Belle: I'm sorry, sis! I just thought that if I could help, I might find my special gift and finally earn my cutie mark.
Rarity: I understand. It's just that... I need this time to fill this order without any... complications.
Rarity: Okay, all done. Now, back to work. I've lost a lot of time, and I cannot have any more interruptions.
[doorbell rings]
Rarity: Oh, what now?!
Fluttershy: Oh, sorry. I thought the "open" sign meant you were open, but I must have been mistaken.
Rarity: [gasps] Fluttershy! Forgive me! I was so wrapped up in my work that I forgot you were bringing Opalescence back from her grooming!
Fluttershy: No worries, Rarity. I've left her there in the basket.
Opalescence: [purrs]
Rarity: Oh, she looks great! I just don't understand how you're able to do it! I can't get near her without getting a swipe from her claws.
Opalescence: [hiss!]
Rarity: Ahh! Did you use... the Stare on her?
Fluttershy: Oh, no! I wouldn't! I couldn't! I-I don't really have any control over when that happens. I-It just happens. No, I'm just good with animals. It's my special gift, you know?
Rarity: Well, you should have a picture of Opal as a cutie mark instead of those butterflies.
Sweetie Belle: Ooh, ooh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Maybe I can be good with animals, too!
[shing!]
Sweetie Belle: Or not.
Fluttershy and Rarity: [laughs]
Rarity: I'm sorry I can't invite you to stay and chat, Fluttershy. I've bitten off a bit more than I can chew with this order.
Sweetie Belle: But you're not eating anything.
Rarity: No, Sweetie, it's an expression. It means that I've taken on more work than I can handle. I've got twenty of these special robes to make tonight! They're due in Trottingham tomorrow morning.
[twinkling]
Fluttershy: [gasp]
Rarity: See? I've lined them in a special gold silk. It took so long to make, but I think it adds just the right touch, don't you?
Fluttershy: These are lovely, but twenty by tonight? How will you get it all done?
Rarity: Well, I, uh...
Sweetie Belle: Oh, oh, oh! Maybe I could... just... just stand over here and watch.
Rarity: I'll manage.
Fluttershy: Well, maybe I should get out of your mane so you can work.
Apple Bloom and Scootaloo: Hi, Fluttershy! Hi, Rarity!
Rarity: Hello, uh, girls ...
Apple Bloom and Scootaloo: Hey, Sweetie Belle!
Sweetie Belle: Scootaloo! Apple Bloom!
Scootaloo: You ready for tonight?
Sweetie Belle: Yup! Cutie mark planning session is a go!
Apple Bloom: Tonight is the night we each try to find our own special talent.
Scootaloo: Even if it takes us all night!
Apple Bloom: I'm ready! You ready?
Scootaloo: Very ready!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Cutie Mark Crusader sleepover at Rarity's! Yay!
Sweetie Belle: And... look what I made us!
[trumpet flourish]
Apple Bloom and Scootaloo: Oh, wow! [laughter, gasps] That's so cool! Oooh!
Fluttershy: What does that patch on your cape mean?
Cutie Mark Crusaders: The Cutie Mark Crusaders! Yay!
Scootaloo: We're on a crusade, a mission!
Apple Bloom: To find our cutie marks!
Sweetie Belle: Yup. And look. I lined them with this special gold silk. It took sooo long to make, but I think it adds just the right touch, don't you?
Apple Bloom and Scootaloo: Oooooh!
Rarity: Sweetie Belle! What have you DONE? That was the last of the gold silk! Oh, now I'll have to make more! Oh, I hope I can make more. I'm gonna have to work all night! Which means... Sorry, girls, I'm afraid the Crusaders sleepover is cancelled.
Sweetie Belle: WHAT?
Rarity: I just won't have any time to watch you if I want to get these robes delivered on time.
Sweetie Belle: But--
Rarity: No buts this time. I'm sorry, Sweetie Belle; it's just the way it has to be.
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Awwww ...
Fluttershy: I, uh, I suppose I could take them for the night.
Rarity: I couldn't ask you to do that.
Fluttershy: Oh, it's no problem at all.
Rarity: Have you met my sister and her friends? A problem is all it would be.
Fluttershy: Did I have a problem with Opal? You've seen how well I handle small creatures!
Rarity: I suppose that's true... and I do have a lot of work to do...
Fluttershy: Come on, it'll be fun.
Rarity: I assure you, they're quite a handful.
Fluttershy: These sweet little angels?
Rarity: Well... all right.
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Cutie Mark Crusader sleepover at Fluttershy's cottage! Yay!
Fluttershy: So cute. W-wait for me!
Rarity: Hmmm...

Fluttershy: Oh, won't this be ever so fun? We can have a nice little tea party, and braid each others' tails, and sit quietly and color, and tell each other fairy tales, and--
[rush of air, clattering hooves]
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [giggling]
Twilight Sparkle: Hello, Fluttershy.
Fluttershy: Oh! Hello, Twilight. Where are you off to?
Twilight Sparkle: I'm heading to the Everfree Forest to Zecora's to get some of my favorite tea.
Fluttershy: Th-the Everfree Forest? Ah, you'll be careful, won't you?
Twilight Sparkle: Of course! How about you? What are you doing with the girls?
Fluttershy: Rarity has a big order to fill tonight, so I volunteered to take the girls over to my cottage for a sleepover.
Twilight Sparkle: Wow. Sounds like everypony has their hooves full today. Taking care of those three fillies all by yourself? You sure you can handle it?
Fluttershy: What? These sweet little angels? They'll be no problem at all.

[crickets chirping quietly, owl hooting]
[door closes]
Sweetie Belle: Wow! Look at this place! What's that? Are those chickens?
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [unintelligible loud chatter, clattering hooves, zippy sounds]
Fluttershy: [to herself] No... problem at all. [normal] Okay, girls, uh, what should we do?
Scootaloo: I'm gonna get my mark first!
Fluttershy: Girls?
Sweetie Belle: Nuh-uh!
Fluttershy: Should we--
Apple Bloom: I am!
Fluttershy: Girls, okay, now settle--
Scootaloo: I'm staying up all night!
Apple Bloom: Me, too!
Sweetie Belle: Me, three!
Fluttershy: I-I know you're excited, but-- girls, oh, oh, careful with the-- oh, ah, girls-- [huffs] So! What do you wanna do? Play a game?
Scootaloo: We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Apple Bloom: And we want to crusade for our cutie marks!
Sweetie Belle: And, and, and, we, um-- yeah! What they said!
Fluttershy: Mmm, I don't know... how about a nice quiet little tea party?
Scootaloo: Or... we could go adventuring in the Everfree Forest!
Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle: Yeah!
Fluttershy: Oh, no! The Everfree Forest is much too dangerous. It's filled with far too many strange creatures.
Sweetie Belle: But you could go with us and we could catch those creatures. We could be, umm... creature catchers!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: YAY! Cutie Mark Crusader creature catchers!
Scootaloo: Arrrr! I am a dangerous creature from the Everfree Forest! Rrrarr!
Sweetie Belle: Halt, dangerous creature of the Everfree Forest. I am Sweetie Belle, the creature catcher, and I'm here to catch you!
Scootaloo: You can never catch me! I am far too powerful and dangerous!
Sweetie Belle: You cannot run from me!
Scootaloo: Raaaar!
Sweetie Belle: [giggling]
Scootaloo: Raaaar! [giggling]
Fluttershy: Um, oh, maybe that's not such a-- now, girls, how about we do some nice coloring? Doh--
Sweetie Belle: Come back, dangerous creature, so I can catch you!
Scootaloo: Never!
Fluttershy: Careful... you don't...
[crash]
Fluttershy: ...break anything.
Sweetie Belle: Sorry, Fluttershy.
Scootaloo: Yeah, sorry.
Apple Bloom: I guess we aren't creature catchers.
Fluttershy: Oh, girls, it's okay. I--
Apple Bloom: I know! We could be Cutie Mark Crusader carpenters!
Fluttershy: C-carpenters?
Apple Bloom: Hammer!
Scootaloo: Hammer.
Sweetie Belle: Hammer!
Scootaloo: Hammer. Hammer! ...Hammer.
[thumping, clattering, sawing, jackhammer sounds]
Sweetie Belle: Um ... that doesn't look like a table.
Scootaloo: We were making a table?
Apple Bloom: Somepony needs to put this thing out of its misery.
Scootaloo: We are definitely not Cutie Mark Carpenters.
Sweetie Belle: Who wants a picture of a hammer on their flank anyway?
Fluttershy: Well, now that we've gotten that out of the way, how about a game?
Apple Bloom: A game?
Fluttershy: It's called "Shhh!"
Scootaloo: What's that?
Fluttershy: Well, it's a game about who can be quiet the longest. Sound fun? I'm the world champ, you know. I bet you can't beat me! [squee] [deep breath]
Scootaloo: I lose!
Sweetie Belle: Me too!
Apple Bloom: Me three!
Fluttershy: [sigh]
Apple Bloom: Okay, now what can we do? Oooh! How about Cutie Mark Crusader coal miners?
Cutie Mark Crusaders: YEAH!
Fluttershy: NO!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Awwww!
Fluttershy: I mean, it's time for bed, don't you think? Aren't you excited to get all toasty and warm in your snuggly-wuggly widdle beds?
Apple Bloom: Snuggly-wuggly? But we have more crusadin' to do!
Scootaloo: We've got plans!
Sweetie Belle: And capes!
Fluttershy: Um, okay, um. Maybe the crusading can wait until morning? When it's light? And not so... dark?

Apple Bloom: How are we gonna find our special talent in our sleep?
Fluttershy: [blows out candle] Maybe you'll have a lovely little dream about your special talent.
Scootaloo: But we're not even tired!
Fluttershy: How about I sing you a lullaby?
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Mm-hmm, yeah!
Fluttershy: [clears throat]

[Fluttershy]
Hush now, quiet now
It's time to lay your sleepy head
Hush now, quiet now
It's time to go to bed

Sweetie Belle: I know this one!
Fluttershy: Oh, how wonderful! Why don't you sing it with me?
Sweetie Belle: [clears throat]

[Sweetie Belle]
Hush now! Quiet now!
It's time to lay your sleepy head!
Said hush now! Quiet now!
It's time to go to bed!


Fluttershy: Okay Sweetie, that was...

[Sweetie Belle]
Driftin' (driftin') off to sleep!
Exciting day behind you!
Driftin' (driftin') off to sleep!
Let the joy of dream land find you!


Fluttershy: Thank you Sweetie, um...

[Sweetie Belle]
Hush now! Quiet now!
Lay your sleepy head!
Said hush now! Quiet now!
It's time to go to BED!


OW!

[chickens clucking and flapping]
Scootaloo: What is that?
[chickens squawking]
Fluttershy: [gasp] Girls!
Apple Bloom: Fluttershy, your chickens are on the loose!
Sweetie Belle: I wonder what could have caused that...
Scootaloo: Don't worry, Fluttershy, the Cutie Mark Crusaders will handle this!
Sweetie Belle: Cutie Mark Crusader chicken herders! Yay!
[rush of air, more chicken clucking]
Fluttershy: No, I don't think that's a-- ah, come back! Please!
[Cutie Mark Crusaders giggling, more chicken flapping and squawking]
Fluttershy: Come on, girls, the chickens are fine-- oh, girls, um... GIRLS!
[chickens flapping and clucking]
Fluttershy: Come on, in you go.
[eerie music]
Fluttershy: There's some good chickens. Okay, you three. Isn't it about time you got into bed?
Cutie Mark Crusaders: BUT--
Fluttershy: Please?

Fluttershy: So, no more crusading for tonight, all right?
Scootaloo: Yes, Fluttershy!
Sweetie Belle: We promise, Fluttershy!
Apple Bloom: Good night, Fluttershy!
Fluttershy: Okay, good night.
Sweetie Belle: Okay, so what kind of crusading do we do next?
Apple Bloom: There's not much we can do from this room... unless we become Cutie Mark Crusader cottage cleaners.
Sweetie Belle: N-no, thanks.
Apple Bloom: Well, we have to think of somethin'. We can't just waste this opportunity to find out what our special talents are. Hey, girls! Look! Some of the chickens may have escaped!
Sweetie Belle: Into the forest!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [whispering] Cutie Mark Crusaders chicken rescuers are go!

Fluttershy: [sigh] It really wasn't THAT hard ... I mean, all I needed to do was just show them who's in charge. Nothing's gonna get past Fluttershy! Good with animals, good with kids.

[quiet galloping]
[tearing fabric]
Scootaloo: [whispering] Wait up!

Fluttershy: Mmm, peace and quiet. [gasps] Too quiet. [gasps] Girls? Girls? Elizabeak! She's missing! GIRLS? [gasps] Oh, no! They must have gone looking for my missing chicken! Which means... they must have gone into... [gasp] [gulp] The Everfree Forest!

Fluttershy: Those girls have really done it this time! They've really bitten off more than they can chew! Oh, just like me! I never should have offered to watch them. [deep breath]

Apple Bloom: Here, chick-chick-chick-chick-chick! Brawck, bawk-bawk-bawk, brawck!
Scootaloo: What are you doing?
Apple Bloom: Callin' for the chicken!
Scootaloo: That is not how you call a chicken.
Apple Bloom: Oh, and you know how to call a chicken?
Scootaloo: I know that's not the way.
Apple Bloom: Then show me.
Scootaloo: I don't have to show you!
Apple Bloom: You're just chicken!
Scootaloo: Am not!
Apple Bloom: Oh, wait, now I know how to call a chicken! Scootaloo! Scoot-scootalooooo!
Scootaloo: That's so funny I forgot to laugh.
Apple Bloom: You also forgot how to call a chicken!
Scootaloo: Why, you...
Apple Bloom: [blows raspberry]
Sweetie Belle: Come on, guys, we're not gonna find the chicken or our cutie marks by arguing.
Apple Bloom: Maybe that's our special talent. Arguin'!
Scootaloo: Is not!
Apple Bloom: Is too!
Scootaloo: Is not!
Apple Bloom: Is too! Anything yet?
Scootaloo: Nope.
Apple Bloom: Darn.
Scootaloo and Apple Bloom: [giggle]
[wind blows]
Apple Bloom: Heeeere, chick-chick-chick-chick, baaawk, bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk, b-baaaaawk!

Fluttershy: [whispering] Girls? [gulp] Girls? [tiny terrified squeak] Oh! Get a hold of yourself, Fluttershy. Just put one hoof in front of the other.
[twig snaps]
Fluttershy: Ahh! What was that?
[thump]
Fluttershy: [scream]
[rush of air, clattering hooves]
Fluttershy: Twilight? I-is that you? Oh, Twilight, it is you. Thank goodness you're here. I need your help. The girls are out here somewhere, and I'm afraid that they're-- [gasps] Oh! What's happened to you? [scream]
[thud]
Fluttershy: Oh, no! If you've been turned to stone, it must mean-- oh! Oh no, the girls! Don't move; I'll be back for you. GIRLS!

Scootaloo: Is not!
Apple Bloom: Is too!
Scootaloo: Is not!
Apple Bloom: Is too!
Sweetie Belle: Girls! Our special talent is not arguing. Besides, what would the cutie mark of somepony whose talent is arguing even look like?
Fluttershy: Girls? Girls?
Sweetie Belle: Fluttershy?
Fluttershy: Girls! Thank goodness I found you!
Apple Bloom: Fluttershy, what--
Fluttershy: Girls, we have to leave the forest at once!
Sweetie Belle: But... we haven't found the chicken yet!
Fluttershy: There's no time for that. There's a cockatrice on the loose!
Apple Bloom: A cocka what now?
Fluttershy: A cockatrice! It's a frightening creature with the head of a chicken and the body of a snake. Now, come on!
Scootaloo: The head of a chicken and the body of a snake? That doesn't sound scary, that sounds silly!
Apple Bloom: Why, if I ever saw one of them cockathingies face-to-face, I'd laugh at how silly it was.
Fluttershy: NO! Never look one in the eye!
[brush rustling, a chicken cluck]
Fluttershy: If you look a cockatrice in the eye--
Apple Bloom: The chicken!
Fluttershy: Girls! Wait!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Here, chick-chick-chick-chick-chick!
[chicken clucking
[growling]
Sweetie Belle: There he is!
Scootaloo: Two chickens?
Apple Bloom: I thought only one escaped!
Sweetie Belle: Grab them both!
[chicken clucking]
[brush rustling]
[roar]
[squawk]
[chicken clucking]
[thud]
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [scream]
[thump]
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [gasp]
Fluttershy: See? Now we have to --
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [screaming]
Fluttershy: Girls, please. Girls-- now listen to me, girls, I-- please!
[screaming]
[cockatrice squawking]
Fluttershy: GIRLS! Behind me, NOW!
[cockatrice squawking and roaring]
Fluttershy: YOU! Just who do you think you are, going around turning others into stone?
Cockatrice: [dismayed squawk]
Fluttershy: You should be ashamed of yourself. I have a mind to find your mother and tell her what you've been up to, young man. Now you go over there, and turn Elizabeak and my friend Twilight back to normal, and don't ever let me catch you doing this again. Do you understand me?
Cockatrice: [dismayed squawking]
Fluttershy: Are you girls all right? I was so worried!
Scootaloo: Yeah, fine!
Sweetie Belle: Thanks to that stare of yours.
Scootaloo: You're like the queen of stares. You're the--
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Stare Master!
Sweetie Belle: We're sorry we snuck out of the house and into the forest.
Apple Bloom: Yeah. We'll listen to you from now on.
Scootaloo: We promise.
Fluttershy: Oh, you DO, do you? Well, you better, or I'll give you... the Stare!
[giggling]
Twilight Sparkle: What... what happened?
[chicken squawking]

Cutie Mark Crusaders: [giggling]
Fluttershy: And that's when it brought you back from stone.
Twilight Sparkle: This is gonna make quite a letter to the princess. I was wrong about you. You certainly do know how to handle those girls.
Fluttershy: Oh, I wouldn't go that far.
Twilight Sparkle: Hmm? How so?
Fluttershy: I assumed that I'd be just as good with kids as I am with animals. Boy, was I wrong. I really learned the hard way not to bite off more than I could chew.
Twilight Sparkle: You and Rarity both. Good morning, Rarity.
Fluttershy: Did you finish all those capes?
Rarity: [sigh] Just delivered them. I have to admit, if you hadn't come along, I might not have. Thanks again.
Fluttershy: Won't you stay for some tea?
Rarity: I really must get back to the shop and clean up. Girls! Get your things. Time to go. Girls!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: [giggling, calling to each other]
Rarity: Girls! Time to-- Girls! Your things! Girls! It's time to-- GIRLS!
Fluttershy: Allow me. [clears throat] Girls?
Apple Bloom: Yes, Fluttershy.
Scootaloo: You called?
Fluttershy: Go and get your things. Rarity is here to see you home.
Sweetie Belle: Of course, Fluttershy, right away!
Rarity: Ah, huh, ah, how did you... how did you do that?
Fluttershy: I guess I'm just as good with kids as I am with animals.
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Thank you, Fluttershy! Bye! Thank you, Stare Master!
Rarity: Ah, uh, speaking of which, I could use your help with Opal.
Fluttershy: Of course. How about later today?
Opalescence: [yowls]
Rarity: How about now? [strains]
Opalescence: [yowls]
Twilight Sparkle and Fluttershy: [giggling]

[music]
[credits]

Apple Bloom: Where are you takin' us?
Applejack: We're almost there, youngin's.
Sweetie Belle: I've never been here before.
Scootaloo: Ouch!
Apple Bloom: Oh. Sorry.
Scootaloo: Are we there yet?
Sweetie Belle: There? Where? What? I don't even know what we're doing.
Applejack: Here we are.
Apple Bloom: What are we lookin' at?
Scootaloo: I have no idea.
Sweetie Belle: What is that thing?
Applejack: Cutie Mark Crusaders, welcome to your new clubhouse. [silence] Well, don't thank me all at once. This was my clubhouse when I was your age. Sure it hasn't been used in a while, but it's empty and on a secluded, private part of the farm. And it's all yours. It just needs a little, uh... TLC.
Scootaloo: TLC as in Tender Loving Care or Totally Lost Cause?
Apple Bloom: Applejack! We're supposed to turn this into our new clubhouse?
Applejack: Well, maybe y'all will get your cutie marks when you discover your talent for... Waaah! [crash] Uh... house cleanin'?

[theme song]

[Birds chirping]
[All gasp]
Granny Smith: Soup's on!
Apple Bloom: Whoa! Hi, Scootaloo! Back already? You're amazin' on that scooter.
Scootaloo: Thanks! Wow, Apple Bloom. You did all of this?
Apple Bloom: Yep! I've fixed the broken shutters, sanded off the splinters, rebuilt the roof, painted...
Scootaloo: That's so cool. What's Sweetie Belle up to?

[Sweetie Belle]
We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders... [humming]
...Never stop the journey... [humming]


Apple Bloom: There you are, Sweetie Belle! See? I told you we could find her by following her totally awesome voice.
Scootaloo: What's that sweet tune you're singing?
Sweetie Belle: Oh. I was just working on our new Cutie Mark Crusaders theme song.
Apple Bloom and Scootaloo: COOL!
Scootaloo: Teach us?
Sweetie Belle: Well, I've only come up with one part... but okay!

[Sweetie Belle]
They all say that you will get your mark
When the time is really right

[Apple Bloom]
And you know just what you're supposed to do

[Scootaloo]
AND YOUR TALENT COMES TO LIGHT!


Applejack: Well, uh... I'll be, Cutie Mark Crusaders. You've done one fine job with this place. So, what's next?
Apple Bloom: Well, now that we have a real life clubhouse...
Scootaloo: ...and a map of Ponyville...
Sweetie Belle: ...and a Cutie Mark Crusaders theme song...
Applejack: Theme song?
Apple Bloom: We're gonna go out in the world and discover our talents.
Scootaloo: A new adventure!
Sweetie Belle: And earn our cutie marks.
Apple Bloom: We'll leave no stone unturned!
Scootaloo: No mountain unclimbed!
Sweetie Belle: No meal uncooked!
Apple Bloom: No sock unworn!
Applejack: Well okay then! Sounds like you have a plan. I gotta, uh... Leave no apple unpicked! See y'all later!
Scootaloo: Are we ready to get our cutie marks, ponies?
All: Ready!

[bell rings]
[pigs squealing]

Sweetie Belle: [sniff]
[machine whirring]

[bell rings]
"Vera": [crying]

[ding!]
[ding!]
[ding!]

[wind whistling]

[bubble sounds]
[frantic bubble sounds]
[octopus growling]

Spike: I had nothing to do with this.
Twilight Sparkle: What is going on here?
Apple Bloom: Hmm... Well, we sure aren't gettin' our cutie marks for bein' librarians.
Spike: Huh. I should think not. What?
Twilight Sparkle: Girls, I think you're going about this the wrong way. Instead of trying to do things in areas you're not familiar with, why not try doing things in areas that you already like?
Cheerilee: And I have the perfect place to start.
Apple Bloom: "Showcase your talents..."
Scootaloo: "...for all to see."
Sweetie Belle: "Perform in the Ponyville school talent show!"
Cheerilee: There'll be all sorts of awards. Best dramatic performance, best comedy act, best magic act... Surely you can find your talent.
Apple Bloom: This would be the perfect place to discover our talents. Jugglin'!
Scootaloo: Acting!
Sweetie Belle: Magic tricks!
Apple Bloom: Square dancin'!
Scootaloo: Tightrope walking!
Sweetie Belle: Tiger taming!
Twilight Sparkle: My little ponies! You're missing the point. Think about the things you already enjoy doing. Think about what you're already good at.
Scootaloo: Sure! We can do that.
Sweetie Belle: Yeah! Sure we can.
Apple Bloom: Well, whatever we do, we'll do it as...
Cutie Mark Crusaders: ...The Cutie Mark Crusaders!

Rarity: Sweetie Belle! I told you not to touch my things. Come back with my supplies!
Sweetie Belle: We're just borrowing them for the talent show. Don't worry, sis. I promise we'll bring them back.

Scootaloo: Thanks, Mr. Breezy. We'll return the fan to you real soon.
Apple Bloom: What do we need this fan for?
Sweetie Belle: Trust me on this one.

Scootaloo: Okay, so that's six wooden planks, four-by-eight plywood, a box of nails, four cans of paint, and four brushes. Anything else?
Sweetie Belle: Yeah. Instructions on how to use six wooden planks, four-by-eight plywood, a box of nails, four cans of paint, and four brushes.

Twilight Sparkle: "Ghost, Goblins and Ghoulish Figures"? Good heavens, girls. What do you need a book like this for?
Scootaloo: You'll see. Thanks, Twilight. We'll give it back as soon as we're done with it.
Twilight Sparkle: What do you think they're up to?
Spike: I have no idea and I don't know if I should be excited or scared to find out.

Apple Bloom: I'm glad we're doin' this as a team.
Sweetie Belle: Me too. Um... so what are we doing again?
Scootaloo: A super awesome dramatic song for the talent show, of course.
Sweetie Belle: Right! With super-cool scenery. And amazing costumes!
Apple Bloom: And mind-blowin' dance moves.
Scootaloo: This is gonna be soo amazing!
Apple Bloom: Sweetie Belle, I think you should be a singer.
Sweetie Belle: What? No way I'm singing in front of a crowd. Twilight said to do something we like to do, and I'd like to be like my big sister, and she's a designer.
Scootaloo: Fine then. You can do the costumes and the scenery.
Apple Bloom: And Scootaloo, you're great in manoeuvers on your scooter. So you should do the choreography. Y'know, all those dance moves.
Scootaloo: Nah. I'd rather sing a wicked rock ballad. Why don't you come up with the dance routine, Apple Bloom?
Apple Bloom: Hm... I'm not much of a dancer... but I do like Kung-fu. That's kinda like dancin'. Hi-ya! Hah! Hah! Yah!
Sweetie Belle: Then it's settled! Let's get started.

Apple Bloom: One... two... three... Oh! Oh!
Scootaloo: Ow, Apple Bloom! What are you doing?
Apple Bloom: Oh, I feel like I have four left feet. I can't even spin right.
Scootaloo: Don't be silly. You just gotta keep your head forward until very the last minute, like this. See? Easy-peasy. You just gotta practice a bunch, that's all.
Apple Bloom: Wow! That does look easy. Thanks. Okay. Let's try this again. Oh! Ouch! Ow. I'm okay!
Scootaloo: Keep practicing!
Apple Bloom: Will do.

[discordant piano notes]
Scootaloo: We fight the fight, walk the walk. Talk the talk, eat the... uh... food like a celery stalk? Ugh! I'll never come up with anything! Never, never, never!
Sweetie Belle: Come back! Come back! Uh. Dumb fabric. Hey, Scoot! How's the song going?
Scootaloo: Pbbbt.
Sweetie Belle: Pbbbt? Oh my! Sounds serious.
Scootaloo: I'm just no good at lyrics. Coming up with words is, like... [pause] really hard.
Sweetie Belle: Oh, it can't be that bad. "With our cutie marks we'll rock Equestria. We use our stomachs to... digestia"? Umm... Well... These are... um... good, but... How about after "we fight the fight"...
There is nothing that we fear
We'll have to figure out what we'll do next
Till our cutie marks are here

Scootaloo: Wow! That's so awesome! Did you just come up with that now?
Sweetie Belle: Yeah... kind of.
Scootaloo: Thanks, I'm totally using that.
Sweetie Belle: Oh no!

Sweetie Belle: One, two, three, four, FIVE?! [moan] [sigh]
Apple Bloom: Ouch!
Sweetie Belle: How's the spin coming along?
Apple Bloom: I think I gotta just stick to punches and kicks. You know, ponies only have four legs.
Sweetie Belle: [moan] I'll never be a designer like my sister Rarity.
Apple Bloom: Hey, it's no big deal. Why don't you use the dress form? It'll help you with your patterns and help you put all the pieces in the right places.
Sweetie Belle: Oh, is that what that's for?
Apple Bloom: Uh... maybe you should also clean your paintbrush between each color.
Sweetie Belle: Oh, I was wondering why all the colors looked like mud.
Apple Bloom: You're not using power tools, are you?

Applejack: The talent show is just around the corner. I wonder how the fillies are doin'.
Apple Bloom: Oh! Sorry, Scootaloo.
Scootaloo: That's okay. Ugh!
Sweetie Belle: Oops! Sorry, Scootaloo. Ouch!
Scootaloo: Oh, my bad, Sweetie Belle. Let's sing the chorus again!
Applejack: Well, gosh. Sure wasn't expectin' that.
Apple Bloom: I think that sounded pretty good.
Sweetie Belle: Me too. You think we're ready?
Scootaloo: Ready as we'll ever be. Hey! Did you see us practicing?
Applejack: Uh... Yeah.
Apple Bloom: Well? How'd we do? How'd we do?
Applejack: Uh...
Scootaloo: Speechless! See, girls? I told you that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna leave them speechless.
All: YAY!
Applejack: "Speechless" is right.

Snips: ...And on the count of three, this rabbit will disappear, and something tasty will reappear in its place. A one, a two, and a three! Hey! Where are they? Snails, where are the... carrots. SNAILS!
Cheerilee: Uh, how about a round of applause for the S&amp;S magic act? Now for our next act, we have Sunny Daze and Peachy Pie reciting their favorite poem... on roller skates!
Sweetie Belle: Break a leg!
Apple Bloom: Sweetie Belle! What a thing to say!
Sweetie Belle: No, no, no. You see, in the theater it's considered bad luck to say "good luck". So you say "break a leg" instead.
Twilight Sparkle: My little ponies! How are you doing?
All: Nervous...
Twilight Sparkle: Don't worry. You're gonna be amazing. Remember, just stick to what you know best. I can't wait to hear you sing, Sweetie Belle.
Sweetie Belle: Why does everypony always think I'm gonna sing?
Scootaloo: Actually, Twilight Sparkle, I'm the main singer tonight.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh?
Apple Bloom: And I'm the main dancer. Hi-ya!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh?
Sweetie Belle: And I'm in charge of...
Twilight Sparkle: Costumes?
Sweetie Belle: And sets and props. How'd you know?
Twilight Sparkle: Really, girls? Are you sure...?
Cheerilee: Cutie Mark Crusaders, you're on next. Break a leg.
Twilight Sparkle: Break a le...
Apple Bloom: Ugh!
Twilight Sparkle: Uh... good luck!

[Scootaloo]
Look, here, are three little ponies,
Ready to sing for this crowd,
Listen up, 'cause here's our story
I'm gonna sing it


[Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, and Scootaloo]
Very loud!!!!!!!


[Scootaloo]
When you're a younger pony
And your flank is very bare
Feels like the sun will never come
When your cutie mark's not there


So the three of us will fight the fight
There is nothing that we fear
We'll have to figure out what we'll do next


[Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, and Scootaloo]
Till our cutie marks are here!


We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders
On a quest to find out who we are
And we will never stop the journey
Not until we have our cutie marks


[Scootaloo]
They all say that you'll get your mark
When the time is really right
And you know just what you're supposed to do
And your talent comes to light


But it's not as easy as it sounds
And that waiting's hard to do
So we test our talents everywhere


[Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, and Scootaloo]
Until our face is blue


We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders
On a quest to find out who we are
And we will never stop the journey
Not until we have our cutie marks


We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders
On a quest to find out who we are
And we will never stop the journey
Not until we have our cutie marks!!

[crash]
[laughter]

Scootaloo: Wow. That did not go as well as I expected.
Apple Bloom: I can't believe they're laughin' at us.
Sweetie Belle: Was it that bad?
Cheerilee: Back on stage, girls. It's time for the awards.
Sweetie Belle: Back on stage? No.
Apple Bloom: They'll just laugh some more.
Scootaloo: Yeah, what's the point?
Cheerilee: Now girls, let's be good sports. You made a great effort. You should be proud. Now come on!
Cheerilee: Let's hear it for all our talented fillies and colts.
[hooves stomping]
Cheerilee: Our first award goes to... Snips and Snails for best magic act.
Snips: Hey! Mine's at least shinier.
Snails: Well, mine's bigger.
Snips: Oh yeah, well... Well, mine is, um... heavier?
Cheerilee: The next award goes to... Sunny Daze and Peachy Pie for best dramatic performance.
Sunny Daze and Peachy Pie: [gasp]
Cheerilee: And finally, the last award of the night goes to... the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Cutie Mark Crusaders: What?
Cheerilee: For best comedy act.
[ponies cheering]

Apple Bloom: Can you believe it? We won!
Scootaloo: I knew our act was awesome.
Sweetie Belle: You know what would be the best? If we won and we got our cutie marks.
All: [moan]
Twilight Sparkle: Congratulations, ponies! Job well done.
All [sadly]: Thanks, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: Hey, you don't sound too excited.
Scootaloo: [sigh] We worked really hard and won a prize, but we still don't have our cutie marks.
Sweetie Belle: Which is the prize we really wanted.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, girls...
Apple Bloom: But we think we know why.
Sweetie Belle: Yes. We know why.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh? Tell me. I'd love to make a special report to the Princess.
Sweetie Belle: Well, maybe we were trying too hard.
Twilight Sparkle: Yes? And?
Scootaloo: And instead of forcing ourselves to do something that's not meant for us...
Twilight Sparkle: Yes? Yes?
Apple Bloom: We each should be embracing our true talent!
Twilight Sparkle: And that is...?
All: Comedy!
Applejack: Apple Bloom! You did it!
All: Did you see our award? Weren't we funny?
Twilight Sparkle: One day... [giggle] One day...

[music]
[credits]

Rarity: Perfect!
 [doorbell ringing]
Rarity: Coming! Welcome to Carousel Boutique, where every garment is chic, unique, and magnifique. [gasp] Sapphire Shores! The pony of pop!
Sapphire Shores: Good afternoon, Miss Rarity!
Rarity: You yah... Y-y-you know my name?
Sapphire Shores: Well, of course I do, darling. I make it a point to know all of the up-and-coming designers and Clothes Horse magazine simply raved about you.
Rarity: Oh my stars. If I'm dreaming, do not wake me up. How may I help you, Miss Shores?
Sapphire Shores: Oh please, call me Sapphire.
Rarity: [giggle] How may I help you, Sapphire?
Sapphire Shores: Well, as I'm sure you know, I'll be touring all of Equestria with my latest concert, Sapphire Shores' Ziegfilly Follies, so I need to look seeensational! Ow!
Rarity: I have just what you need. Sapphire Shores, prepare yourself for the pièce de résistance de la haute couture. I used every last diamond I found on this one garment.
Sapphire Shores: [gasp] And it is spectacular! I'll take it.
Rarity: Really?
Sapphire Shores: Oh yes, and five more, each done up in a different jewel.
Rarity: Beg pardon?
Sapphire Shores: Costume changes.
Rarity: [faints]
Sapphire Shores: [chuckle] Yes, I do have that effect on ponies.

[theme song]

Spike: Oh my gosh! Sapphire Shores! The pony of pop! She is awesome! I mean, she's gorgeous and talented and-heh... and not even half the pony you are. I mean, you're ten times more gorgeous and talented and-
Rarity: Spike, a lady is never jealous.
Spike: Eh, of course not. But were you totally flipping out or what?!
Rarity: Ladies do not "flip out", Spike. However, I was quite in awe. Oh, I need to find more jewels than ever before to decorate her costumes. Oh, aha!
Spike: Did you find some?
Rarity: Yes, Spike! Right there!
Spike: Ooooo! You look so delicious...
Rarity: Spike! I promised I'd give you gems to snack on, but we need to collect more first or I'll never be able to make these outfits for Sapphire.
Spike: Hm... I will miss you, my sweets.
Rarity: Come along, Spike. We have many jewels to find.
Spike: At your service, milady.

Rarity: Spike!

[jackhammer sounds]

Spike: [licks lips]
Rarity: You've been very patient today, Spike. And for that you get the finest reward. This is from me to you.
Rarity: Is something wrong, Spike?
Spike: No. It's perfect.
Rarity: Ooo, bring the cart, Spike. There are more over here.
Spike: For me. From Rarity.

Rover: Yesss, gemsss. Gemsss!
Fido: Where?
Rover: Preciousss gemsss! He is the gem hunter. With him we can have all those gems... and more! Let's get the dragon.
Rarity: Spike! Where are you?
Rover: Wait! Who is that?
Rarity: You know, it's terrible to keep a lady waiting.
Spike: Coming!
Rarity: I think we're really going to strike gold this time. So to speak. [laugh]
Spike: Jackpot!
Rover: Oh, it's not the dragon we want. It's the pony!
Diamond Dogs: The pony...
Rarity: Well, Spike, I think that's all we can do for today. And these will certainly get me well on my way with Sapphire's outfits. Why don't we start headi... Oh! What's this? Another jewel. Oh.. Oh, strange. It's in the trees. Oooo... Ewww! Uh... uh... Good day, gentle... uh, fellow. Uh, I am Rarity and this is my friend Spike.
Spike: Ehe...
Rarity: And you are...
Rover: A Diamond Dog.
Rarity: Oh really? Oh well, that explains your fine taste in jewelry. I mean I-I-I know diamonds are a girl's best friend and now I know they're a dog's best friend too, ha ha ha. So, um, [cough] are you out hunting for gems as well?
Rover: Yes. We hunt.
Rarity: Uh... we?
Rover: We hunt for gems. But you are a better hunter. So now we hunt... for you!
Rarity: [screams]
Spike: [jackhammers] [babbles]
Spot: Yaaaaah!
Fido: [growls]
Spike: [grunt] Run, Rarity! Run! Aaaah! Uh!
Fido: Ooooooh!
Spot: Yaaaaah!
Rarity: Spike! Come on! Hurry!
Rover: Gotcha!
Rarity: Waah! Spike!
Spike: Got him, Rarity! I got him!
Fido: Haha! Nope!
Spot: Sorry, scaly one.
Spike: Wait! Rarity?
Rarity: Unhand me this instant, you ruffians. Stop! Put me down, you thugs! You brutes!
Spike: [gasp] Rarity!
Rarity: Spike! Ah, dirt! Aaaaah, Spiiiike!
Spike: Which, what, where?
Rarity: Save me...!
Spike: Nooooooooooo!!!

Twilight Sparkle: Spike, can you breathe now?
Spike: Yes... [pant] I think so.
Twilight Sparkle: Good. Now tell us what you know.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah. 'Cause all you said earlier was...

Spike: [pant] Aaaah! Rarity... woods... jewels... dogs... hole... taken... Save her!

Applejack: Not a whole lot to go on there, sport.
Spike: Sorry. Rarity and I were in the woods looking for jewels when these creepy guys showed up.
Twilight Sparkle: Creepy guys?
Spike: They called themselves the Diamond Dogs. They grabbed Rarity and disappeared down a hole in the ground.
Applejack: Well, this sounds mighty easy. Just take us to that there hole and we'll save Rarity.
All: [gasp]
Pinkie Pie: Holy moly, that's a lotta holeys.
Twilight Sparkle: Come on, girls! Let's get started.
Twilight Sparkle: Hello?
Fido: [growl]
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Puh!
Rainbow Dash: Yuck! Ugh!
Pinkie Pie: [squeal]
Spike: Puh!
Twilight Sparkle: Quick! We gotta get down one before they're all filled up.
Fluttershy: Oh! Oh my. Oh, oh!
Applejack: We can't muscle through it!
Rainbow Dash: We'll see about that. [gasp]
Applejack: Whew. Heavens to Betsy. Now I'm used to pickin' myself up and dustin' myself off, but Rarity won't even touch mud 'less it's imported.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Rarity...

Rarity: Oh, woe is me! What ever shall I do? Ah! Dirt, dirt! Get away, dirt! Oh! Make it stop, make it stop! Ah! Filthy, disgusting dirt. It stings, it burns. Help! Oh, somepony save me, save me!

Applejack: We gotta save her.
Fluttershy: But they blocked up all the holes.
Applejack: Don't mean we can't dig 'em out. Come on!
Pinkie Pie: Ow!
Fluttershy: Oof!
Spike: [panting] Whoa! Oof!
Rainbow Dash: Get 'em!
Applejack: [grunting] [gasp]
Pinkie Pie: Whoooaaa!
Rainbow Dash: Come on!
All: [grunting and panting]
Fluttershy: All those scary monsters popping up everywhere. Oh, poor Rarity must be terrified.
Twilight Sparkle: [worryingly] Ooh.

Spot: Give me the baubles!
Rarity: Ah!
Fido: Give me the beads!
Rarity: Aah!
Rover: Where are the trinkets?!
Rarity: Aaaah!
Diamond Dogs: Where is the treasure?!
Rarity: [faints]

Twilight Sparkle: Poor Rarity. What are we gonna do?
Spike: I got it! I'll save you, my sweet.
All: Huh?

Twilight Sparkle: Spike, it is very noble of you...
Spike: Shhh!
Twilight Sparkle: [quieter] ...to sacrifice the gem Rarity gave you.
Spike: Oh, Lady Rarity. My damsel in distress.

Sir Spike: I shall save you. Show yourselves, you dogs! You curs! Ah. There you are, you mangy mutts.
Rover: Who are you calling mutts? Unleash the hounds! [blows dog whistle]
Mook dogs: [barking] [yelping]
Sir Spike: Now, where is Lady Rarity?
Lady Rarity: [gasp] Spike! I knew you would save me!
Sir Spike: Nothing could stop me, milady.
Lady Rarity: Ohohohoh, Spike. You are my... hero. [smooch]
Sir Spike: Mmmmmm...

Applejack: Hoho there, lover boy.
Spike: Whoa! Whoa whoa whoawhoawhoa... I got a bite! I got a bite!
Applejack: Hold on there, little fella.
Twilight Sparkle: Applejack!
Rainbow Dash: Twilight!
Fluttershy: Oh my goodness, oh my goodness...
Pinkie Pie: Wait for me!
Fluttershy: Oh!
Pinkie Pie: Whee!
Spike: [yelps]
All: [yelping]
Spike: [yelps]
All: [yelping]
Pinkie Pie: Whee! Ha, ha, ha!
Spike: Oh, oh!
[ponies grunting]
Spike: Ha ha, it worked! We're in! Now we can finally save Rarity!
Twilight Sparkle: Um... Which way do we go?
Spike: Nooooooooooo!

Twilight Sparkle: All these tunnels... How are we ever gonna find Rarity?
Applejack: Guess we're just gonna have to start going down them one by one.
Rainbow Dash: That could take forever! There's gotta be way to narrow it down.
Spike: I know! I bet they've taken Rarity down the tunnel with the most gems.
Twilight Sparkle: But Spike, Rarity is the only one who knows how to find gems.
Spike: No, Twilight. You can! You can copy Rarity's gem-finding spell.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh my gosh! You're right! Rarity showed me how she did it a while back. If I can just remember...
Spike: That's it. You did it, Twilight! Come on! We're coming, Rarity. We'll save you. Just hold on.

Rarity: Oh please, Diamond Dogs. Please let me go.
Spot: No!
Fido: You're our precious little pony.
Rover: Forever! Muhahahaha!
Rarity: But what ever do you want from me?
Rover: Gemsss!
Spot: Yes! The gems. The jewels.
Fido: Find them! Find them all!
Rarity: Oh! Is that all?
Rarity: There. A lovely pocket of jewels are right there. Now, if you'd be so kind as to show me the exit?
Rover: Good! [laugh] Now, dig them up, pony.
Rarity: What? But you said you wanted me to find the gems.
Spot: Yes! Find and then dig.
Rarity: Dig?
Fido: Yes. Dig.
Rarity: Ohh... [grunting]
Fido: What are you doing? We said dig!
Rarity: Forgive me, but prior to you so rudely dragging me into your dirt pit, I had a pony-pedi and I am not about to chip a hoof because you dislike my style of digging. [grunting]
Rover: Oh, for goodness. Fine! Just stop. Stop! Dig, dogs! Dig! And fast.
Fido: She won't dig, she pulls.
Rarity: I beg your pardon, but what, pray tell, are you doing?
Fido: Others will dig. You will haul the wagon.
Spot: Prrrecious pony-pedi will be preserved.
Rarity: Well, somebody certainly needs proper nail care. When was the last time you two had a manicure? You're scratching up my coat with those jagged things!
Rover: Please be quiet!
Rarity: Good heavens, what is that smell?
Rover: Smeeeeeell?
Rarity: Ah, mystery solved. It's your breath.
Rover: Enough! Search, pony!
Rarity: Well, since you insist... But I must say the working conditions in here are simply dreadful. Musty and damp, it's going to wreak havoc on my mane. And this air is stifling, suffocating. And when I try to take a deep breath, the stench of all you dogs makes me nauseated.
[crash]
Rarity: You look and smell like you haven't bathed in weeks. Have you never heard of soap? You could all do with a good round of soap and water. Oh water, oh water, I'm terribly thirsty. Could I please have some water?
Spot: Good gracious, I can't take this anymore. Be quiet, pony!
Rarity: And that's another thing. I would appreciate if you stopped calling me "pony". I am a lady and I wish to be addressed as such. So you may call me "Miss" or "Rarity" or "Miss Rarity".
Rover: Enough! Your whining! It-it-it hurts!
Rarity: Whining? I am not whining. I am complaining. Do you want to hear whining? Thiiis iiis whiiining! Oooh, this harness is too tiiight! It's going to chafe. Can't you loosen it? Oooh, it hurts and it's sooo ruuusty! Why didn't you clean it first? It's gonna leave a staaain! And the wagon's getting heeeavy, why do I have to pull it?!
Spot: Aaah! Make it stop!
Rover: Stop whining!
Rarity: But I thought you wanted whiiining!
Rover: Geh! We'll do anything, pony!
Rover: Oh, uh, uh, we'll do anything, "Miss Rarity". [nervous laughter]
Rarity: [dreamily] Anything?

Rarity: [sigh] This water is hardly sparkling. But I suppose it will have to do.
Rover: [panting] Wait! Why are we doing this?
Spot: To stop the awful noises from the pony's mouth, remember? [whines]
Rover: Yes, yes, I know. This is ridiculous! Letting a pony order us around. What are we? Mice or dogs?
Fido and Spot: Mi... dogs?
Rover: Dogs do not pull. Ponies pull. Let her make the awful noises.
Rarity: What are you doing? Hey, you spilled my drink. Oh! [whining] Not sooo tiiight!
Rover: Ha! Make the noises all you want. But move while you make them. Hyah, mule!
Rarity: Did you just call me a... mule?
Rover: Ehh...
Rarity: Mules are ugly. Are you saying that I too am ugly? [cries]
Spot: What are these noises?
Rarity: He called me ugly!
Rover: No! Mule! I said mule!
Rarity: An old ugly mule! And it's true! Just look at me. I used to be beautiful, but, but nooow...
Fido: No, no! You're still beautiful, po... uh, Miss Rarity.
Rarity: You're just saying that!
Spot: No, you're still pretty and... and...
Rover: Oh, uh, uh, nice. Yeah.
Rarity: I don't believe you! You never liked me! [wails]
Rover: Oh, I've had just about enough of this!

Twilight Sparkle: We're getting close. I can feel it.
[Rarity crying]
Spike: It's coming from down here. Come on!
Rainbow Dash: She must be in there. Let's go!
Mook dogs: More workhorses.
Applejack: Hoh, doggies. If you can take this bull by the horns, you better be ready for a ride. Come on, ponies! Kick 'em up, kick 'em out. Buck 'em up, buck 'em down.
Mook dogs: [yowling]
Applejack: Yeehaw! Get along, little doggies!
[crashing and clattering]
Spike: I'm coming for you, milady. Hi-ho, Twilight! Away!
Twilight Sparkle: And just what do you think you're doing?
Spike: Please, Twilight. Just give me this.
Twilight Sparkle: Eh... fine. [neighs]
[crash]
Spike: Lady Rarity, I'm here to save you!
[Dogs' screams: Save us! Please, save us! Make it stop! Please!]
Twilight Sparkle: Excuse me?
Spot: So picky.
Fido: And critical.
Spot: She won't stop talking.
Fido: And crying.
Rover: We, uh, give her back. Yes.
Spike: Rarity! You're safe!
Rarity: Why, yes. Hello, girls. You arrived just in time to assist me.
Applejack: Assist you with what?
Rarity: With those.
Spike: You're letting her leave with all these... jewels?
Rover: Yes. Take them. And her with them.
Spot: Please!

Pinkie Pie: I can't believe you found all these gems!
Rainbow Dash: Heh. I can't believe you tricked all those dogs.
Rarity: Just because I'm a lady doesn't mean I cannot handle myself in a sticky situation. I had them wrapped around my hoof the entire time.
Twilight Sparkle: I can't wait to write to Princess Celestia to tell her what you taught me today.
Rarity: Me? What did I teach you?
Twilight Sparkle: Just because somepony is ladylike doesn't make her weak. In fact, by using her wits a seemingly defenseless pony can be the one who outsmarts and outshines them all.
Spike: Hm... "Outshines" is right. Now you have enough gems to cover Sapphire Shores's costumes.
Rarity: Not if you eat them all, Spike.
[laughter]

[music]
[credits]

Rarity: So sorry, Fluttershy. I hate being late for our weekly get-together. The usual!
[steam hisses]
Rarity: But you will not believe what happened to me.
Fluttershy: Is everything all right?
Rarity: Oh, it's much more than all right. I was on my way here, wearing my latest hat creation, when who should stop me on the street but Photo Finish!?
Fluttershy: Photo Finish?
[steam hisses]
Rarity: She is the most famous fashion photographer in all of Equestria. Anywho, she saw my hat and said it was absolutely marvelous!
Fluttershy: What a lovely compliment.
Rarity: She was so impressed that she wants to take some pictures of my shop featuring some of my clothes!
Fluttershy: [squee] That's wonderful.
Rarity: [vibrating] Do you know what this could mean for my fashion career?
Fluttershy: Oh, Rarity, I'm so happy for you.
Rarity: But I'm going to need somepony fabulous to model for me. Somepony with beauty. Somepony with grace. Somepony... like you?
Fluttershy: Oh, goodness. I don't know.
Rarity: Oh, this is such a huge opportunity. And it would mean so much to me.
Fluttershy: I'm flattered, really.
Rarity: Nopony is going to have your elegance and poise.
Fluttershy: But...
Rarity: Nopony!
Fluttershy: There has to be somepony more quali...
Rarity: Please!
Fluttershy: Somepony more into fashion.
Rarity: Please!
Fluttershy: Somepony more comfortable in the spotlight.
Rarity: Please, please, PLEEEASE!
Fluttershy: Oh, if it's that important to you, of course I'll do it.
Rarity: Oh, thankyouthankyouthankyouthankyou! You are the best friend a pony could ever have!
Fluttershy: [sigh] What a wonderful way to spend an afternoon.
Rarity: Isn't it? Though I was so afraid you wouldn't agree to model for me that I felt completely frazzled. I think I feel a pimple coming on. Oh! Only one solution!
Rarity: The usual!

[theme song]

Rarity: Hm... She's going to want to see attitude and pizzazz.
Fluttershy: A-a-attitude and, um... pizzazz.
Rarity: More light! It has to catch the sequins just so or the whole outfit is just a disaster. Oh, and the headdress need more feathers. Pinkie Pie! More feathers! And sequins! More sequins!
Fluttershy: [whimper]
Rarity: And more ribbon! Oh no! Less ribbon. No! More ribbon.
Fluttershy: [squeal]
Rarity: Oh, this hem is completely off. PINCUSHION! Thank you all for helping me. I'm sorry to be so short with you, but I'm... I'm just so nervous.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, doesn't that hurt?
Spike: Thick scales. Can't feel a thing. And even if I could, there is no pain that would keep me from assisting the most beautiful creature in the world. I'm gonna tell you two a secret. But you have to promise not to tell anyone.
Twilight Sparkle: I promise.
Pinkie Pie: Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my eye.
Spike: I have a crush on Rarity!
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] We won't say a word!
Twilight Sparkle: Give me a break. Everypony already knows how you...
Pinkie Pie: Twilight! You promised Spike you wouldn't say anything. He trusts you. And losing a friend's trust is the fastest way to lose a friend forever!
Twilight Sparkle: But...
Pinkie Pie: FOREVER!
Twilight Sparkle: My lips are sealed. Though I'm pretty sure Rarity is gonna pick up on your feelings.
[doorbell rings]
Photo Finish: I, Photo Finish... have arrived.
Rarity: Let me just say, what an honor!
Photo Finish: We begin... NOW!
Rarity: Attitude and pizzazz!
Photo Finish: Yes! Show Photo Finish something. No! Yeees. No! Yeees. No! Yeees. ENOUGH!
Twilight Sparkle: She hardly took any pictures.
Fluttershy: I'm so sorry. I tried my best.
Rarity: Well, the headdress is too big for you and cape had too much sparkle. I can't believe I ever thought I could impress her.
Photo Finish: It seems that I, Photo Finish, have found the next fashion star here in Ponyville.
Rarity: Really?
Photo Finish: Yes. Really. And I, Photo Finish, am going to help her to shine all over Eqvestria. Tomorrow a photo shoot in ze park. [pause] I go!
Rarity: Did you hear that? I am going to "shine all over Equestria".
Fluttershy: Oh, Rarity. I was so worried I'd ruined everything.
Rarity: Oh, never. I knew you'd be perfect. [excited giggling]

Rarity: No, no, no, yes! That is definitely the one. Photo Finish is going to love it. Everypony is going to love it!
Fluttershy: Oh, I am so excited for you. Just don't forget us little ponies when you become the most famous designer in all of Equestria.
Rarity: Never.
Photo Finish: Put me down here. Oh, nonononononono. The model should be in something simple! Something inspired by... the nature!
Rarity: That's just what I was thinking. Um... give me a moment and I'll, uh, put a little something together.
Photo Finish: Yes... that will not be necessary.
Rarity: But... but... how are you going to help me "shine across Equestria" if I don't design something new for these pictures?
Photo Finish: I am not going to help you shine across Equestria. I am going to help her shine. She is my star. You! Go!
Rarity: [gasp]

Fluttershy: I can't, Rarity.
Rarity: Oh, but you must, Fluttershy. Photo Finish wants to make you a star. This is the opportunity of a lifetime. I know we were both hoping it would be my lifetime, but nonetheless you can't throw away this chance. You must do this for me. You must. You must! YOU MUST!
Photo Finish: Floottershy! It is time to make... the magics! Oh, wunderbar! You are like a delicate flower. So much more alluring without all those sparkles und feathers.

Pinkie Pie: How'd it go? How'd it go?
Rarity: It didn't. Photo Finish wanted to work with Fluttershy, not me.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Rarity. I'm so sorry. Is there anything we can do?
Rarity: I just vant to be alone right now.
Spike: You heard her. She vants to be... alone. What? I didn't think she meant alone alone.

Photo Finish: Too much blush. Not enough. Too much. Not enough. Perfect.
Fluttershy: Ah... Aaah... [tiny sneeze]
Photo Finish: Oh, yes! Even her schneezes are graceful. NOW GO! How do you feel? Excited? Overjoyed? Thrilled beyond your wildest dreams?
Fluttershy: N... nervous.
Photo Finish: Nervous? Dun be ridiculous. You're only facing a large crowd of ponies who will be watching your every move and silently judging you.
[music]
Photo Finish: Your cue! Now go!
Background voice: No seriously...
[ponies chattering]
[cameras clicking]
Fluttershy: You can't let Rarity down. You must do this. You must. You must. You must.
[ponies cheering]
Lyrica Lilac: So graceful.
"Royal Ribbon": So lovely.
Hoity Toity: So perfect for my new advertisement.

Rarity: [gasp] [growl]

Shoeshine: It's Fluttershy!
[ponies shouting excitedly]

[bell rings]
Rarity: Wow. Look how popular you are. I'm so excited for you. You must be having the best time ever.
Fluttershy: Oh, yes. Best time ever...
Photo Finish: Floottershy! I have been looking for you everywhere. We have the thing at the place.
Fluttershy: I'll see you at the spa? Our usual time?
Rarity: Of course! I can't wait to hear all about the... "thing at the place".
Rarity: I'm the one who should be mobbed by strangers wherever I go.
[bell rings]
Rarity: Welcome to Carousel Boutique!
Sweetie Drops: Is she still here? We heard Fluttershy was here.
Rarity: Sorry. You just missed her. But you're still in luck. I'm having a huge sale of some of my best designs.
Sweetie Drops: And you are...?
Rarity: Rarity, of course.
Sweetie Drops: Never heard of you.

Photo Finish: Obviously I, Photo Finish, am thwilled to have found her.
Fluttershy: Photo Finish?
Photo Finish: She's a natural in front of the camera.
Fluttershy: Um... Photo Finish?
Photo Finish: I only need to point and shoot, and I capture... the magics!
[ponies: Over here! Fluttershy, over here!]
Fluttershy: Photo Finish, I'm so sorry to interrupt. It's just that I'm running late.
Photo Finish: [gasp] How could I have forgotten?! Your appearance at the ballet opening! Everypony who is anypony will be there.
Fluttershy: Oh, actually I'm supposed to be meeting my friend...
Photo Finish: WE GO!

Rarity: My hooves are getting positively pruney, I've been waiting here so long. Obviously Fluttershy's just too busy with her new career to spend time with her best friend.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm sure she just got tied up.
Rarity: Of course she did. She's a big bright shining star! I wish that star would burn out.
Twilight Sparkle: Rarity! Fluttershy is your friend.
Rarity: I know, I know. And I should be happy for her, but instead I'm just... jealous! Oh, please promise you won't tell her I feel this way. Please, please, pleasepleasePLEASE!
Twilight Sparkle: You have my word. Losing a friend's trust is the fastest way to lose a friend.
Pinkie Pie: FOREVER!
Twilight Sparkle: Wow! You look great!
Rarity: Fluttershy may be the one who's famous, but that doesn't mean I have to stop looking fabulous.
Fluttershy: Rarity! I'm so sorry I'm... Oh no. She's already gone, isn't she?
Twilight Sparkle: Sorry.
Fluttershy: Oh, I can't believe this. I am so frustrated, I could just scream. [inhales] [squeak]
Twilight Sparkle: Feel better?
Fluttershy: No. Can I tell you something?
Twilight Sparkle: Of course.
Fluttershy: You promise not to tell Rarity?
Twilight Sparkle: I swear.
Fluttershy: Pinkie Pie Swear?
Twilight Sparkle: Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my [poke] OOOWWWWW!!!!!!!!!!!!
Fluttershy: I don't like being a model. No, I hate being a model. All this attention is awful, just awful. And I'm only doing it because Rarity told me I must. I must! I MUST! [sigh] I must...
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, really? Well... If you wanna know the truth, Rarity...
Fluttershy: Oh, what were you about to say?
Pinkie Pie: [quietly] FOREVER!
Twilight Sparkle: Nothing!

Twilight Sparkle: I was just thinking. If you really don't like being a model, you could always quit.
Fluttershy: Oh, no. I could never do such a thing. Rarity would be devastated.
Twilight Sparkle: But Rarity told me... [gasp]
[eerie music]
Pinkie Pie: [chomp] Mmm... Juicy!
Twilight Sparkle: Uhhhhhh!
Fluttershy: Oh, if only all these ponies didn't like me so much. Photo Finish wouldn't want me to model anymore. She'd find somepony else with... the magic!
Twilight Sparkle: I guess you're right. [pause] You're right. You're right, you're fight, you're right!
Pink Lady: It's Fluttershy!

Twilight Sparkle: Don't you see? On her own, Fluttershy could never do something unattractive. But if I used my magic to help her do something unattractive at her next fashion show, no one will ever want her to model again. And if Fluttershy no longer has to be a model, Rarity will no longer have to be jealous of her. And I'll no longer have to keep their secrets! It's the perfect plan! You can't tell anyone about it. Promise me you won't tell anyone?
Twilight Sparkle: So you do promise or you don't?
Pinkie Pie: Uh, yes! Obviously, that's why I zipped my mouth closed, then locked it with a key, then dug a hole, then buried the key, then built a house up top the hole where I buried the key, then moved into the house on top of the hole.
Twilight Sparkle: Obviously.

[ponies chattering]
Fluttershy: You really think it'll work?
Twilight Sparkle: They love you for being you. So all I have to do is make you not be you. Just leave it to me.
[music]
Rarity: Guess it's time to see what all the fuss is about.
Fluttershy: Oof!
[music stops]
[ponies gasp]
Fluttershy: [gasp] Ooh... Aah!
[ponies gasping]
Fluttershy: [barks]
Rarity: Oh no.
Fluttershy: [brays]
[ponies gasp]
Golden Harvest: Get her off the stage!
Lemon Hearts: She's an embarrassment to all things fashion!
Photo Finish: I, Photo Finish, have made a terrible mistake!
[ponies booing]
Rarity: Bravo! I say bravo!
Lyrica Lilac: Bravo? Who could possibly say bravo to that horrid display?
Rarity: Such attitude! Such pizzazz! She's invented an entirely new kind of modeling! Bravo!
Lyrica Lilac: Who is saying these things?
"Royal Ribbon": It's her. The unicorn in the gorgeous cape and headdress.
Lyrica Lilac: Now that is a pony who clearly knows a thing or two about fashion. Well, if that fabulous pony likes it, then I do too! Bravo!
[ponies cheering]
Fluttershy: [moans]

Fluttershy: This is awful. Just awful! Somehow I've become more popular than ever. Oh, I'm so frustrated I could just kick something!
[vase wobbles]
Fluttershy: If only Rarity didn't want me to be a model so badly.
Twilight Sparkle: Ugh! But Rarity...!
Rarity: Fluttershy! Are you all right?
Fluttershy: I'm great! I'm a super famous fashion model. Why wouldn't I be great?
Twilight Sparkle: Because you ha...!
Rarity: Out there on the runway, everyone was turning on you and... Oh... Oh, Fluttershy. It's so awful. I wanted them to.
Fluttershy: You did?!
Twilight Sparkle: Of course she did! Because...!
Rarity: I'm jealous! I wanted all the attention. And instead it was going to you. I even started hoping that you would do something silly so your modeling career would be over. But then, when it started happening, all I could think was how could I want you to fail at something you love so much?
Twilight Sparkle: But... Fluttershy doesn't... Ugh!
Fluttershy: Love? Oh, Rarity. I hate being a model.
Rarity: You do?
Fluttershy: More than anything.
Rarity: Then why did you keep doing it?
Fluttershy: I was afraid if I quit, you'd be mad at me for not wanting to... "shine all over Equestria".
Rarity: And I thought if I told you how jealous I was of your success, you'd think I was a terrible friend.
Fluttershy: Never!
Rarity: All this time!
Fluttershy: If we just told each other the truth.
Rarity: I promise never to keep my feelings in secret again.
Fluttershy: Me too.
Fluttershy and Rarity: Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my eye. [laughs]
Photo Finish: You were brilliant. Brilliant! I've already got six photo shoots lined up for tomorrow alone.
Fluttershy: I'm sorry, Photo Finish, but I don't think I'll be able to make any of them.
Photo Finish: Whaaat?
Fluttershy and Rarity: We go!
Photo Finish: Vat has just happened?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike has a crush on Rarity!
Pinkie Pie: [sigh] And you were doing so well.

Fluttershy: Now this is a wonderful way to spend an afternoon.
Rarity: Isn't it, though?
Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
Being a good friend means being able to keep a secret. But you should never be afraid to share your true feelings with a good friend. Did you get all that, Spike?
Spike: No. I did not. I still can't believe you told someone about my secret feelings for Rarity.
Twilight Sparkle: You're right. That was wrong of me, and I'm very sorry.
Spike: Apology accepted.
Twilight Sparkle: Now will you take down my letter to Princess Celestia?
Spike: I would love to. But... I'm a little busy at the moment.
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh]

[music]
[credits]

Applejack: And that's when the yellow birdie thought to himself, "Hmm. My favorite little tree isn't such a little tree anymore." So she sang her song, big and strong, and they all lived in that great, big tree happily ever after. The... end.
Rarity: Applejack! Were you reading a bedtime story to... an apple tree?
Applejack: Heh... uh... Well, ya know, bein' replanted in a whole new place is very upsettin' for a tree... and Bloomberg here is one of my favorites.
Rarity: No fair, Applejack! You've got a luxurious, private sleeper car for a tree, while I am crowded and cramped in the same car with all the other ponies. How am I supposed to get my beauty sleep?!
Applejack: But Bloomberg's the whole reason we're makin' this trip. He needs his rest so we can give him as a gift to my relatives in Appleloosa.
Rarity: Hmph! You talk about it as if it's your baby or something.
Applejack: Who you callin' a baby?! Bloomberg's no baby! Don't wet widdle Rarity make you all saddy-waddy. Bloomberg's a big and strong apple tree. Yes, he is. A-coochie-coochie-coo-coo-coo!
Rarity: It's widdle Rarity who's all "saddy-waddy"! Urgh!

[theme song]

[indistinct conversations]
Rainbow Dash: Oh man, we're going fast! This is so exciting I can't even wait!
Somepony: Oh my gosh!
Rarity: [sigh] For crying out loud in the morning!
[more indistinct conversations: Fluttershy(?): I can't wait! Rainbow Dash: Yeah, yeah! Oh, my gosh!]
Spike: [groan] Do you guys mind? I was up early fire-roasting those snacks you're all eating, and I'm pooped!
Rainbow Dash: Uh, speaking of, some of these popcorn kernels didn't get popped.
Spike: Okay, fine...
Rainbow Dash: Ghk...
Spike:: Good night!
Twilight Sparkle: Uhh... maybe it's time we all got a little shut-eye. We've got a big day ahead of us tomorrow.
Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie: Awwww!
Spike:: [snoring]
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] Psst! Pinkie Pie, you asleep yet?
Pinkie Pie: [whispering] No, are you asleep yet?
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] If I was sleeping, how could I have asked you if you were asleep?
Pinkie Pie: [whispering] Oh yeah! [giggle]
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] When we get to Appleloosa, you think we'll have to carry that heavy tree all the way from the train to the orchard?
Pinkie Pie: [whispering] What tree? You mean Bloomberg?
Rainbow Dash: [whispering and sarcastically] ...No, Fluttershy.
Pinkie Pie: [whispering] Fluttershy's not a tree, silly!
Twilight Sparkle: What's going on?
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash thinks Fluttershy's a tree!
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] I do not think she's a tree! I was just–
Twilight Sparkle: Did you say she was a tree?
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] No. Well.. Yes. But not exactly–
Twilight Sparkle: Ya know she's not a tree, right?
Pinkie Pie: She's not a tree, Dashie!
Fluttershy: I'd like to be a tree...
Spike: Oh, for Pete's sake!
[door opens and slams]
Twilight Sparkle: Well that was kind of huffy.
Fluttershy: Huffy the magic dragon!
All (except Rarity): [giggles]
Rarity: Would you all be QUIET... NOOOOW!!!???
All (except Rarity): Aaaaaah!!! [blows out candle]

Spike: Bloomberg..? Bloomberg? Sorry, but I tend to snore a bit. Good night. [sigh]

[indistinct surprise: Rainbow Dash: Who gets what now, huh?]

Twilight Sparkle: A buffalo stampede!
[ponies awing]
Rarity: I just love their accessories!
Twilight Sparkle: They're getting awfully close to the train.
[all shouting indistinctly]
Rarity: I want to speak to the manager!
Spike: [snoring]
Pinkie Pie: Oooh, looky! Now they're doing TRICKS! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Now do a back-flip!... Or... Just jump?
Rainbow Dash: Hmm.. Something tells me this isn't a circus act. Hey there!
Little Strongheart: [gasp]
Rainbow Dash: Where ya headed in such a hurry? Wow, you're pretty quick for someone so... bulky. No offense.
Little Strongheart: Huh..?
Rainbow Dash: I just wanna know– Hey! I'm talking to you– Whoa... Arrgggg... I got you now, you– [groan]
Little Strongheart: [whistle]
Applejack: [gasp] They've got Bloomberg!
Spike: Heeeelp!
Twilight Sparkle: And Spike!
Rainbow Dash: Ugggh..
Spike: [distant] Heeeelp!
Rainbow Dash: Dragon-napping Spike. I'll show her! Ow...

Braeburn: Hey there! Welcome ta A-a-pplelooosa!
Applejack: Braeburn, listen–
Braeburn: Cousin Applejack, mind yer manners, you have yet ta introduce me to your compadres! Shame on you!
Applejack: Braeburn, listen, somethin' terrible's happened–
Braeburn: Terrible is right, your train is full seven minutes late! That's seven minutes less for you to delight in the pleasures and wonders of... A-a-a-pplelooosa! Boggles the mind, we settler ponies built all this in just the past year, don't it?! And as you can see, we have all of the finest comforts. Like horse-drawn carriages!
Black Stone: Okay, you pull now.
Noteworthy: Aww, we just switched.
Braeburn: And those there are horse-drawn, horse-drawn carriages.
Applejack: ...Listen, Braeburn, I– Oof!
Braeburn: And here's our local waterin' hole, the Salt Block.
Morton Saltworthy: That's enough salt for you!
Salt Lick: Can't I at least... get a glass of water?
Braeburn: Over there's the office of Sheriff Silverstar. And here's where we have our wild west dances! And here's where we have our mild west dances!
Applejack: But, Braeburn, we–
Braeburn: And here's the most wonderful sight in all of... A-a-a-pplelooosa! Our apple orchard.
Applejack: Braeburn!
Braeburn: First harvest should be any day now.
Applejack: Braebu–
Braeburn: Good thing too!
Applejack: Brae–
Braeburn: 'Cause we need that grub to live on.
Applejack: BRAEBURN!
Braeburn: Uh, yes, cuz?
Applejack: You have a very nice town an' all, but but we have a HU-UGE problem! Some of our friends are missin'!
Fluttershy: A stampede of buffalo.
Rarity: They took Spike!
Twilight Sparkle: Rainbow Dash went after them!
Fluttershy: And we can't find Pinkie Pie.
Applejack: And we had an apple tree with us for your orchard, but they took that too!
Braeburn: Did you say... buffalo? [sigh] Them buffalo, they want us settler ponies to take every single tree you see here off this land. They sure as hay don't want any new ones added in.
Fluttershy: But why?
Braeburn: Beats me. We put a lot of hard work into this land, so we can feed our town, our families, our foals! And now they're sayin' all these trees have to go? T'ain't fair...

Rainbow Dash: Ooh, I can't wait to get my hooves on that little buffalo... Hnnh... Ow! Nobody tricks Rainbow Dash and gets away with it.
Pinkie Pie: Boo!
Rainbow Dash: Yah! ...Pinkie Pie!
Pinkie Pie: Ah, ya caught me! Looks like I tricked you and didn't get away with it either! You're good.
Rainbow Dash: Shhshh! What do you think you're doing?! You gotta get out of here!
Pinkie Pie: I do?
Rainbow Dash: You're gonna blow my cover.
Pinkie Pie: I am?
Rainbow Dash: I'm trying to save Spike!
Pinkie Pie: Oh my gosh! So am I!
Rainbow Dash: And the more of us there are out here, the more chances of us getting... caught. Run, Pinkie, I'll hold 'em off. Save yourself!
Spike: Stop! Dash, Pinkie, 'sup? Hey, no worries I know those guys. They're cool.
Buffalo: If you say so, Spike. Catch ya later, bro.

Spike: Seems they took me by mistake. And they feel awful about it too, poor guys. Fortunately, they totally respect dragons, so they treat me like an honored guest.
Rainbow Dash: [sniff] Ugh...
Spike: Still don't like ponies much, though... But you're with me, so it's cool.
Rainbow Dash: Huh.. Well, I still don't trust them. I say we turn tail and bail while we still–
Pinkie Pie: Mmm! [munching] Before we finish eating? Are you loco in the coco?! Can I please have more of that mushy stuff, whatever it was?
Little Strongheart: Certainly. And, Mr. Spike, you like gemstones, yes?
Spike: Turquoise. Mmm! [munching] Heh hah! This here is Little Strongheart, and these are my friends Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash: You!
Little Strongheart: You!
Rainbow Dash: That's it! We are outta here!
Little Strongheart: Wait! Please accept my apologies for what happened on the train. We didn't mean for anyone to be hurt.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, right.
Little Strongheart: We only wanted the tree. The settler ponies have overtaken the land and have planted an orchard all over it! Because of their thoughtlessness, we can no longer run over our traditional stampeding grounds.
Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie: Huh?
Spike: I think it's time they met Chief Thunderhooves.

Chief Thunderhooves: Hmmh. We have a long and winding stampeding trail that we have run upon for many generations. [breath] My father stampeded upon these grounds, and his father before him, and his father before him, and his father before him, and his father before him, and–
Little Strongheart: I think they get the idea, Chief.
Chief Thunderhooves: Hmph. It is a sacred tradition to run the path every year. But this year, these... settler ponies, these... [snort] Appleloosans! [snorting]
Little Strongheart: They planted apple trees all over it without asking our permission.
Pinkie Pie: Well that's not very nice. Right, Rainbow Dash?
Rainbow Dash: Hmph...
Little Strongheart: The ponies refused to move their trees, so we are stuck here, and it is not fair!
Spike: See, Rainbow Dash? They had a good reason to–
Rainbow Dash: Huh... Ah!
[buffalo gasp]
Rainbow Dash: I'll say they had a good reason! C'mon. We have some apple-pickin' Appleloosans to talk to!

Rarity: Ow! [groaning] Gently, please!
Applejack: Sorry, Rarity, but our friends are out there and we have ta' be ready for a long hike into buffalo territory if we're gonna save 'em! Let's go!
Pinkie Pie: Hi, guys!
Fluttershy: Pinkie! We're so glad you're safe.
[indistinct "Oh, there you are!" "Thank goodness!"]
Twilight Sparkle: How did you escape from the buffalo?
Pinkie Pie: We didn't!
[ponies gasp]
Rainbow Dash: We promised the buffalo a chance to talk.
Applejack: Oh, yeah? 'Bout what?
Rainbow Dash: We brought our new pal Little Strongheart here to explain to the Appleloosans why they should move the apple trees off buffalo land.
Braeburn: That information would be quite help–
Applejack: That's weird. 'Cause my cousin Braeburn here wants to explain to the buffalo why they should let the apple trees stay.
Little Strongheart: That would be a useful thing to–
Rainbow Dash: The land is theirs! You planted the trees not knowing that. Honest mistake. Now, you just gotta move 'em, that's all.
Braeburn: Well... heh...
Applejack: They busted their rumps here! An' now they're supposed ta bust their rumps again, just 'cause some buffalo won't stampede someplace else?
Rainbow Dash: Plant the trees somewhere else!
Applejack: Where?! It's the only flatland around these parts!
Rainbow Dash: The BUFFALO had it FIRST!
Applejack: The settler ponies need it to LIVE!
Rainbow Dash: Come ON, Applejack!
[At the same time] Applejack: You're bein' unreasonable! Rainbow Dash: I put my hoof down!
Twilight Sparkle: Look! Both the settlers and the buffalo have good reasons to use this land. There must be something we can do.
Pinkie Pie: Hey! I've got an idea!

[piano intro]

[Pinkie Pie]
We may be divided
But of you all, I beg
To remember we're all hoofed
At the end of each leg


No matter what the issue
Come from wherever you please
All this fighting gets you nothing
But hoof and mouth disease


Arguing's not the way
Hey, come out and play!
It's a shiny, new day
So, what do you say?


You gotta share
You gotta care
It's the right thing to do
You gotta share
You gotta care
And there'll always be a way through


Both our diets, I should mention
Are completely vegetarian
We all eat hay and oats
Why be at each other's throat?


You gotta share
You gotta care
It's the right thing to do
And there'll always be a way
Throoooough!

Spike: [applauds] All right, Pinkie Pie! That was FANTASTIC! What a great song! Yeah, right on!
Chief Thunderhooves: It appears that Sheriff Silverstar and I have come to... an agreement.
Sheriff Silverstar: We have.
Chief Thunderhooves: That was the worst performance we've ever seen.
Sheriff Silverstar: Teh... Abso-tively!
Chief Thunderhooves: The time for action... Hmh... is upon us! Our stampede will start at high noon tomorrow. And if the orchard is still there, we'll flatten IT! AND the whole town!
[ponies gasp]
Little Strongheart: But, Chief!
Sheriff Silverstar: An' we Appleloosans say you'd better bring yer best, 'cause we'll be ready and waitin'.
Braeburn: But, Sheriff...
Pinkie Pie: Oh... That wasn't the message of my song at all...

Applejack: I want my kin ta' have what they need to live... but a storm's a-brewin' here. And I don't like the look of it.
Twilight Sparkle: We've just got to talk some sense into them before somepony gets hurt. Listen, maybe if you would just reconsider, we–
Rarity: About the trees. Now if you could–

Twilight Sparkle: If we could just sit down and talk we could–
Goldengrape: Grrrrr!
Twilight Sparkle: [gasp] Why won't anybody be rational and reasonable?!

[hammering, sawing, and nailing]
Applejack: Sheriff, if we could only–

[buffalo snorting]
Spike: Isn't there someway to stop this?
Little Strongheart: Unless the settlers remove those trees, I do not think so.
Spike: [sigh] [munching]
Rainbow Dash: I know you don't want to do this.
Chief Thunderhooves: But they have taken our land. What would you have me do, Rainbow Dash?
Rainbow Dash: I don't know... but it's never too late to think of something.
Chief Thunderhooves: At noon, it will be too late.

Rainbow Dash: Come on, THINK. Think, think, think, think, think, think, think!
[clock strikes twelve times]
Chief Thunderhooves: [sigh]
Rainbow Dash: [gasp] He's not gonna do it!

[Pinkie Pie]
–whaddaya say?
You got to share
You got to care
It's the right thing to do

Chief Thunderhooves: Grrr...
You got to share

Chief Thunderhooves: CHAAARGE!
You got to care

Pinkie Pie: Wah-ahh! Woah-oo-oo-oo-ooah!

Sheriff Silverstar: Ready... aim... fire!
[pies splattering]
Cherry Berry: [gasp]
[clang!]
[crash]
Sheriff Silverstar: Ah! Aah!
Chief Thunderhooves: [distorted] Nooo!
Buffalo: [crying]
Spike: [cries]
Chief Thunderhooves: Yum! Hey, I've got a much better idea!

Applejack: [whistle]
Chief Thunderhooves: We... will allow the apple orchard to stay in exchange for a share of its fruit, heh... Those... delicious apple pies!
Spike: I'd rather eat turquoise any day of the week. [chomp] Auhh...!
Applejack: Bloomberg, this is yer special day. Mama's so proud of you!

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
Friendship is a wondrous and powerful thing. Even the worst of enemies can become friends. You need understanding and compromise. You've got to share. You've got to care.

Pinkie Pie: HEY! That's what I said!

[music]
[credits]

Fluttershy: There you go, Mr. Mousey. Now you stay off that leg and do everything I told you. And it will be just like new in no time at all.
Mouse family: [squeaks]
Fluttershy: Oh, you're welcome. Happy to be able to help.
Angel: [pants] [squeak]
Fluttershy: You... found a watch? You... wanna be a watch? You're running! Running out of time? No. You're... late?
[clock strikes four]
Fluttershy: [gasp] I'm late for a very important date! The big brunch for Princess Celestia at Sugarcube Corner. Oh, the princess is here in Ponyville for a party, and we all promised we'd be there. But I'm not there! Oh, do I look all right? Do I need to bring anything? Maybe I shouldn't go.
[trumpet fanfare]
Fluttershy: Aah! It's starting! I'm missing it!
Angel: [sigh]
Fluttershy: Oh, thanks, Angel. I mean, if you hadn't reminded me, I might have not remembered, and then I wouldn't be there, and everypony would be wondering where I was and... Oh, right. I'm late.
[door rattles]
Fluttershy: Oh, okay then. See you later.

[theme song]

Rainbow Dash: So... what do I have to do to get to be one of the Princess's royal guards, anyway? Is the pay good? Hellooo! Anybody home? [babbles] Wah-wah! [babbles] Ooh, you're good. [pause] Too good. I'm bored.
Fluttershy: Phew. Made it. [gasp]
Guard 1: Halt!
Guard 2: Who goes there?
Fluttershy: [gulp] No one. Never mind. I'll go home.
Twilight Sparkle: It's all right, sirs. She's on the list.
Fluttershy: Thanks, Twilight.
Twilight Sparkle: I'm so glad you could make it, Fluttershy. It wouldn't be the same without you.
[ding!]
Mr. Cake: How's everypony doing? Good? Good.
Mrs. Cake: Anything else we can get for you, dearies...? Ooh, I-I mean, esteemed guests.
Princess Celestia: Everything is fine, Mr. and Mrs. Cake.
Fluttershy: Sorry I'm late. I had to finish taking care of a patient first.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, you and your tender loving care of little animals. I just know Princess Celestia is gonna love that about you. I mean, I hope she will... I mean, of course she will!
Fluttershy: Wow, Twilight. I thought I was the only one who got nervous at social gatherings.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, it's not that. I just want the princess to approve of my friends.
Fluttershy: But she's met us all before.
Twilight Sparkle: And read about you in my letters. But this is the first time she's spent any real time with you. I want everypony to make a good impression.
Fluttershy: Well, I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. Besides, it's just a casual get-together, right?
Rarity: Don't touch me! Watch the dress! Careful, you're gonna spill that on me! Oh, oh, that looks delicious. What is it? Oh, does it stain?! Keep it away from me!
Fluttershy: Or... perhaps not that casual.
Applejack: Uh... which is the salad and which is the appetizer again? And which am I supposed to eat first? Oh, never mind. I'm not hungry.
Fluttershy: It's okay, Twilight. So our friends' manners aren't perfect. I doubt the princess will even notice.
Pinkie Pie: [giggles] Whoo-hoo! Cupcakes, candies and pies, oh my! Oooh! Chocolate fountainy goodness! [munching] You gonna eat that?! [munching]
Mrs. Cake: [gasp]
Pinkie Pie: Hey!
Mr. Cake: A thousand pardons, Your Majesty.
Princess Celestia: That's quite all right, thank you. [sips]
Mrs. Cake: Empty teacup at 4 o'clock!
Mr. Cake: Uh, I see it, honey bun!
Princess Celestia: Oh, um... thank you.
Mr. Cake: Not at all, Your Highness.
Princess Celestia: [sips] Thank you again.
Mrs. Cake: Oh, but of course, Your Majesty.
Princess Celestia: [sips] [sips] [sips] Gotcha!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh...
Princess Celestia: And what about you, dear? Fluttershy, is it?
Fluttershy: Me? Oh yes, Your Highness.
Princess Celestia: I understand from Twilight Sparkle's letters that you enjoy tending to the needs of woodland creatures.
Fluttershy: Yes, I love to take care of animals.
Princess Celestia: As do I. As Princess, I care deeply about all creatures, great and small.
[cough]
Princess Celestia: Nothing means more to me than the well-being of all my subjects.
Philomena: [coughs and hacks]
Princess Celestia: Ah, Philomena, my pet. You're awake. Do say hello to our gracious hosts.
Philomena: [coughs and hacks]
Fluttershy: Oh... my.
Princess Celestia: She is quite a sight, isn't she?
Fluttershy: I... I... I've never seen anything like it.
Philomena: [cough]
Guard: [clears throat] [whisper]
Princess Celestia: Really? Well, if I must... I'm sorry, everypony. I'm afraid I have to cut the party short. The mayor has requested an audience with me. Royal duty calls. Thank you for a wonderful time. It's been a joy getting to know you all better.
Applejack: Phew! Now I can eat someth'n! I'm starved! Oh...
Pinkie Pie: [whooping and giggling]
Rarity: Stay right where you are. All I want is a clear path to the exit. NOBODY MOVE and my dress won't get hurt! Stay back! Back, I say!
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] Well, Spike, I don't know for sure how things went with the princess, but at least no big disasters happened.

Fluttershy: Oh, you poor little thing. How did you ever get in such bad condition? Don't you worry, Philomena. I'll nurse you back to health. As a favor to the princess, who's obviously just far too busy to care for you properly.
Philomena: [cough]
Fluttershy: I'm sure the princess will appreciate the help. Oh my. We'd better get you to bed right away. There. [gasp]
[thermometer glass shatters]
Fluttershy: This is far worse than I thought. What you need is some medicine. Stat!
Philomena: [cough]

Fluttershy: Here you go, Philomena. This will fix you right up.
Philomena: [sniff]
Fluttershy: Doctor Fluttershy expected that.
[jackhammer sounds]
Fluttershy: Always works. [gasp] Uh... Almost always.
Philomena: [cough]

Fluttershy: There's nothing like homemade soup to cure what ails you. Come on now. You're not gonna get better if you don't cooperate. Mmm... See? It's delicious. Good and good for you. Here come the choo-choo train. Chugga-chugga, chugga-chugga, whoo-whoo!
[splash]
Fluttershy: Oh dear. Don't worry, Philomena. I know what'll make you feel better. Wait right here. I have just the thing.
Philomena: [cough]

Fluttershy: Look, Philomena. I brought a fellow feathered friend by to cheer you up. Hummingway here was sick once too, but he let me help him and got better in no time. Didn't you, boy?
Hummingway: [humming "Mm-hmm!"]
Fluttershy: Say hello to your new friend Philomena.
Hummingway: [humming happily]
Fluttershy: Aw, look. I think he likes you. [vocalizes My Little Pony theme]
Hummingway: [hums My Little Pony theme]
Fluttershy: Your turn now, Philomena. Go ahead. You can do it. [vocalizes My Little Pony theme] Oh! Um... good try?

Fluttershy: I know what'll clear up that tickle in your throat. A humidifier. [deep breath] Refreshing. How's that feeling now for you, Philomena? Better?
Philomena: [deep breath] [cough]
Fluttershy: Oh... That's okay. I know lots of other ways to take care of you. Don't worry. You're gonna get better. How about...

Fluttershy: Aromatherapy?
Philomena: [sneeze]

Fluttershy: Warm bath?

Fluttershy: Ointment?

Fluttershy: Scalpel. Surgical tape. Feathers.
Philomena: [cough]
Fluttershy: Oh, Philomena. I thought it would be easy to nurse you back to health. I've tried everything I know. And look at you. You're worse than ever.
[knock knock knock knock]
Twilight Sparkle: Hi, Fluttershy! I just wanted to drop by and say thank you so very much for making such a good impression on the princess today... [gasp] What is Celestia's pet doing here?!
Fluttershy: I couldn't leave the poor thing there. She needed my help.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh no. NonononononoNO! This is bad.
Fluttershy: How could I just walk away and not do anything?
Twilight Sparkle: But... but... she doesn't belong to you!
Fluttershy: I had to do something.
Twilight Sparkle: Without telling anypony?! Without asking permission?!
Fluttershy: But...
Philomena: [cough]
Twilight Sparkle: I know you had good intentions, but you have got to return Princess's pet!
Fluttershy: But...
Philomena: [deep breath]
Fluttershy: [sigh] You're right. Okay, let's...
Philomena: [cough]
Fluttershy: ...go.
Twilight Sparkle: If we hurry, we can put her back before anypony even realizes she's missing. [gasp]

Guard 1: We were told we could find Twilight Sparkle here.
Guard 2: We regret to inform you, miss, that the royal pet has gone missing.
Twilight Sparkle: Really? You don't say! [nervous laughter]
Philomena: [cough]
Twilight Sparkle: [cough]
Philomena: [cough]
Twilight Sparkle: [cough]
Twilight Sparkle and Fluttershy: [excessive coughing]
Twilight Sparkle: It's that dry night air?
Fluttershy: But it's daytime.
Twilight Sparkle: Well... day air's even drier. You guards better be on your way if you're gonna find the princess's missing pet. Philomena, was it? Thank you ever so much for keeping me in the loop. BYE! [pants] Phew... What are you doing?!
Fluttershy: Going to return Philomena, remember?
Twilight Sparkle: We can't now!
Fluttershy: Why not?
Twilight Sparkle: You have no idea what the princess is gonna do if she finds you're the one who took her pet, do you?!
Fluttershy: Do you?
Twilight Sparkle: Well... no. But it can't be anything good. She might banish you from Equestria. Or throw you in a dungeon. Or banish you and then throw you in a dungeon in the place that she banishes you to!
Fluttershy: You really think the princess would do that?
Twilight Sparkle: Okay. Granted that probably won't happen, but do you wanna take any chances?
Fluttershy: All that really matters to me is that poor little Philomena here gets well.
Philomena: [cough]
Twilight Sparkle: That's very noble of you. I'll write to you when you're banished. Unless I'm banished too somewhere there's no post office. Then you'll have to write to me. Deal?
Fluttershy: Please, Twilight. You just have to help me get Philomena healthy and then we can return her to the Princess. And everything will be fine.
Twilight Sparkle: Did you give her any kind of medicine?
Fluttershy: I tried to, but she wouldn't take it.
Twilight Sparkle: [groan] Then you have to MAKE her take it. You can't be such a pushover, Fluttershy! You need to show this patient who's the boss. Make her straighten up and fly right!
Fluttershy: She can't fly.
Twilight Sparkle: No excuses!
Twilight Sparkle: Done. Okay, what else?
Fluttershy: Uh... well, she keeps pulling her feathers off. The ones that haven't fallen out yet from all her coughing, I mean.
Twilight Sparkle: There you go.
Philomena: [groaning]
Fluttershy: I don't think she likes it.
Twilight Sparkle: Tough love, baby. You want her to get well, don't you?
Fluttershy: Of course, but...
Twilight Sparkle: NEXT!
Fluttershy: Well, she desperately needs some bed rest, but I can't get her to stay put.
Twilight Sparkle: One step ahead of you.

Fluttershy: It's for your own good, Philomena, I promise. Please, just relax and try to get some sleep.
Twilight Sparkle: What's this soup over here? Smells delicious.
Fluttershy: I made it for Philomena. But she wouldn't eat it.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, she'll eat it, all right.
Philomena: [screams]
Twilight Sparkle: Hey! Where are you going?
Fluttershy: No! Philomena! Come back!
[music]

Rainbow Dash: What are you two doing? Are you having a race? Oh, can I play? One, two, three, GO!
Pinkie Pie: [munching]
Fluttershy: Excuse me!
Pinkie Pie: Hi!
Twilight Sparkle: Beg your pardon!
Rarity: Put me down!
Applejack: What in tarnation?!
Fluttershy: Sorry, but we've gotta find...
Guard: The princess's pet bird!
Philomena: [cough]
Fluttershy: Philomena, come down from there! You'll hurt yourself!
Philomena: [cough, exaggerated death rattle] [repeats]
Fluttershy: I'll catch you!
Pinkie Pie: [gasp]
[Philomena bursts into flames]
Fluttershy: [gasp]
All (except Fluttershy): [huge gasp]
Fluttershy: [cries and whimpers]
Princess Celestia: What is going on here? Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, your Majesty, there's been a terrible accident.
Fluttershy: It's all my fault.
Twilight Sparkle: No, Princess. Fluttershy didn't know any better. It was my fault.
Fluttershy: I'm the one who did it.
Twilight Sparkle: But you were only trying to help.
Fluttershy: Some help I was.
Twilight Sparkle: Will ya let me do this? She'll go easier on me.
Fluttershy: But it's my fault!
Twilight Sparkle: No, it's my fault!
Pinkie Pie: No, it's my fault! Wait, what are we talking about?
Fluttershy: Thanks for trying to protect me, Twilight, but... Princess Celestia, I'm the one who took your pet bird. I really was only trying to help the poor little thing. Then I was gonna bring it right back to you, honest. So, if you wanna banish me and then throw me in a dungeon in the place that you banish me to, then that's what I deserve.
Princess Celestia: Oh, stop fooling around, Philomena. You're scaring everypony.
[ponies gasp and awe]
Fluttershy: I don't understand! What is that thing? What happened to Philomena?
Princess Celestia: This is Philomena. She's quite a sight, as I said. But nothing unusual for a phoenix. Isn't that right, Philomena?
Philomena: [squawks]
Fluttershy: A... A phoenix?
Princess Celestia: A phoenix is a majestic and magical bird. While it appears healthy and happy most of the time, every so often it must renew itself by shedding all of its feathers and bursting into flame. [silently] Rather melodramatic, if you ask me. [loud again] It then rises from the ashes, fresh as a daisy. All just a normal part of the life cycle of a phoenix. I'm afraid mischievous little Philomena here took the occasion to have a little fun with you, Fluttershy. Say you're sorry, young lady.
[Philomena makes an "I'm sorry" sound]
Fluttershy: So... aren't you gonna banish me? Or throw me in a dungeon? Or banish me and then throw me in a dungeon in the place that you banish me to?
Princess Celestia: Of course not, my little pony. Where on Earth would you get such an idea?
Fluttershy: I guess I have some imagination.
Twilight Sparkle: Fluttershy really did do everything she could to try to take care of Philomena for you.
Princess Celestia: And I do appreciate that your heart was in the right place, child. But all you had to do was ask me and I could have told you Philomena was a phoenix and saved you all this trouble.
Fluttershy: I know. I shouldn't have jumped to conclusions. Next time I'll ask before taking matters into my own hooves.
Twilight Sparkle: Should I write you a letter about that lesson, Princess?
Princess Celestia: No, that's quite all right. I think I can remember.
Fluttershy: It's beautiful. Thank you, Philomena. No hard feelings.
Rainbow Dash: Hmm... [indistinct whispers] Hey, you know what you should do? You should go over there and tickle them!
[royal guards laugh]
Rainbow Dash: Yeah! [laughs]
[everypony laughs]

[music]
[credits]

Sweetie Belle: [gulp] Are you sure about this, Scootaloo? I've never even heard of a pony zip-lining before.
Scootaloo: Neither have I, but Spike told me it was awesome!
[whooshing noises]
[whirring]
[smoke hissing]
[snap]
[all three scream]
[bonk]
Scootaloo: Whoa!
[honk]
Sweetie Belle: Oh!
Apple Bloom: Wah!
[crash]
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Ow!
Apple Bloom: See anything?
Scootaloo: Tree sap and pine needles, but no cutie mark.
Sweetie Belle: Plan B?
Scootaloo: Yeah. You know where we can find a cannon at this hour? It's no use! No matter what we try, we always end up without our cutie marks. And, surprisingly often, covered in tree sap.
Sweetie Belle: Maybe we should do something less dangerous, like pillow testing or flower sniffing.
Apple Bloom: This town is full of ponies who have their cutie marks. Why don't we ask them how they did it?
Sweetie Belle: That's a great safe idea.
Scootaloo: Yeah! And we can start with the coolest pony in Ponyville.
Apple Bloom: Applejack!
Sweetie Belle: Rarity!
Scootaloo: Come on, guys, I said "cool"! You know who I'm talking about. She's fast. She's tough. She's not afraid of anything!
Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle: Pinkie Pie?
Scootaloo: No! The greatest flyer ever to come out of Cloudsdale.
Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle: Fluttershy?
Scootaloo: No! Rainbow Dash!
Apple Bloom: Oh! Yeah, that makes much more sense.
Sweetie Belle: Of course!
Scootaloo: Let's do it. Let's find out how Rainbow Dash earned her cutie mark!
Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle: YEAH!
Sweetie Belle: Aah! Uuh!
All three: [groan]

[theme song]

[motor revving]
Scootaloo: [gasp]
[screech]
Applejack: Get back here, you thievin' varmints!
Apple Bloom: Thievin' what now?
[crash]
Applejack: Apple Bloom?
Apple Bloom: Hey sis! How'd you get your cutie mark?
Applejack: I never told you that story?
Scootaloo: Hey! I thought we were gonna ask Rainbow Dash.
Apple Bloom: We need all the help we can get.
Scootaloo: Ugh. Fine.
Applejack: Why, shoot. I was just a little filly. Even littler than y'all.

Applejack: [voiceover] I didn't want to spend my life on a muddy old apple farm. I wanted to live the sophisticated life, like my Aunt n' Uncle Orange. So I set out to try my luck in the big city, Manehattan! The most cosmopolitan city in all of Equestria.
"Caesar": Hey! Outta the way, you rube!
Applejack: [voiceover] I knew I'd find out who I was meant to be in Manehattan.
Young Applejack: Aunt Orange! Uncle Orange! Thank y'all so much for lettin' me stay!
Aunt Orange: "Y'all". [laughs] Isn't she just the living end?
Uncle Orange: [chuckle] How quaint.
Aunt Orange: Don't worry. We'll have you acting like a true Manehattanite in no time.

"William Wright": And how are you finding good old Manehattan?
Young Applejack: Oh, it's simply divine.
Aunt Orange: Very well said, my dear.
Young Applejack: Although, I must admit the city noise took some getting used to. Where I'm from, nights are so quiet you seldom hear a peep until the roosters wake you.
"Dainty Dove": The... what?
"William Wright": I say, my dear, what in the world is a "rooster"?
Young Applejack: [voiceover] What's he talking about? What do I say? I don't wanna look like a fool.
Pony: Dinner is served.
Young Applejack: Thank goodness. Being a city pony's hard work. I'm so hungry I could eat a...

Young Applejack: Cock-a-doodle-doo... Oh, I wonder what Granny Smith and Big McIntosh are up to. I bet they're applebuckin' their way through the Red Delicious trees. Oh, what I wouldn't give for just one bite...
Applejack: [voiceover] I never felt so homesick in all my days as I did right then.
[explosion]
Applejack: [voiceover] It was amazin'! A rainbow pointin' right back to... home. In that moment, it all became clear. I knew right then just who I was supposed to be. That's when this here appeared.

Applejack: I've been happily workin' in the farm ever since.
[bunnies blow raspberry]
Applejack: There they are! Get back here, ya thievin' varmints!
Sweetie Belle: Aw. That was such a sweet story!
Scootaloo: Sweet? Try sappy. [mock-gags] Come on! We've got to find Rainbow Dash and hear the cool way to get a cutie mark.

[all three scream]

Fluttershy: All right, little ones. This way. This way. You really should be more careful. Somepony could get hurt. Why are you in such a hurry anyway?
Scootaloo: We're trying to find Rainbow Dash, so we can hear how she earned her cutie mark.
Fluttershy: Oh, that would be interesting. You know, I wouldn't have gotten my cutie mark if it weren't for her.
Scootaloo: Rainbow Dash?! Really?!
Fluttershy: Oh yes. It all started at Summer Flight Camp.

Fluttershy: [voiceover] You'd never guess, but when I was little I was very shy. And a very weak flyer.
Young Fluttershy: [yelping]
Young "Dumb-Bell": [laughter] Nice going, "Klutzershy"! They outta ground you permanently.
Young Hoops: HA! My baby brother can fly better than you!
Fluttershy: [voiceover] It was the most humiliating moment of my life. And then, out of nowhere...
Young Rainbow Dash: Leave her alone!
Young Hoops: Ooh, what are you gonna do, "Rainbow Crash"?
Young Rainbow Dash: Keep making fun of her and find out!
Young "Dumb-Bell": You think you're such a big shot? Why don't you prove it?
Young Rainbow Dash: Whaddya have in mind?

Young Hoops: You're going down!
Young Rainbow Dash: In history, maybe. See you boys at the finish line!
Young Fluttershy: [yelps] [screams]

Young Fluttershy: [screaming] Huh?
Fluttershy: [voiceover] I had never seen such beautiful creatures. Butterflies don't fly as high as my cloud home. And I'd never been near the ground before.

[Fluttershy]
What is this place
filled with so many wonders?
Casting its spell
That I am now under


Squirrels in the trees
and the cute little bunnies
Birds flying free
and bees with their honey


Hooooonneeeeeeey!


Oooh, what a magical place
and I owe it all to the Pegasus race
If I knew the ground had so much up its sleeve 
I'd have come here sooner, and never leave


Yes, I love ev-er-ythiiiiing!

[explosion]
[hysterical animal sounds]
Young Fluttershy: Shhh. It's okay. You can come out. Everything's okay. There's nothing to be afraid of.
Fluttershy: [voiceover] Somehow I had the ability to communicate with the animals on a different level.

Scootaloo: Wait, wait, wait. What happened to Rainbow Dash? What about the race?
Fluttershy: Oh. Well, I wasn't there, so I don't really know what happened.
Scootaloo: Come on, Crusaders. We've gotta find her. Besides, I can't take any more singing.
Sweetie Belle: Maybe my sister knows where she is. Bye, Fluttershy!
Fluttershy: Bye, girls!

Scootaloo: How did we get roped into this? Oh, we'll never hear Rainbow Dash's story.
Rarity: Are you girls still obsessing over your cutie marks?
Sweetie Belle: Of course! Most of the fillies at school already have theirs.
Rarity: Mmm, I know how you feel. For the longest time I couldn't figure out why I didn't have mine.

[music]
Rarity's teacher: Well done, Rarity. Your costumes are very nice.
Young Rarity: Nice?! They need to be spectacular! And the performance is tomorrow!

Rarity: [voiceover] I tried every trick I could think of, but nothing seemed to work. The costumes just weren't right. And the play opened that night.
Young Rarity: Maybe I'm not meant to be a fashionista after all... Aah! What's going on?!

Rarity: [voiceover] I had no idea where my horn was taking me. But unicorn magic doesn't happen without a reason. I knew this had to do with my love of fashion and maybe even my cutie mark! I knew that this was... MY DESTINY!
Young Rarity: A ROCK?! That's my destiny?! What is your problem, horn? I followed you all the way out here for a ROCK?! [groans] Dumb rock!
[explosion]
Young Rarity: [scream]
[rock cracks]
Young Rarity: Ooh!

[music]
[ponies awing]

Scootaloo: Ugh! These namby-pamby stories aren't getting us any closer to our cutie marks! They're all about finding who you really are and boring stuff like that.
Rarity: Yes, Scootaloo, that's exactly...
Scootaloo: Come on, girls! We need action! We need Rainbow Dash!

Twilight Sparkle: As a young filly in Canterlot, I always wanted to go to the Summer Sun Celebration, where Princess Celestia raises the sun.

Twilight Sparkle: [voiceover] And I saw the most amazing, most wonderful thing I've ever seen.
[trumpet fanfare]
[ponies awing and cheering]

Twilight Sparkle: [voiceover] I poured myself into learning everything I could about magic.
Young Twilight Sparkle: [grunting] [gasp]
Twilight Sparkle: [voiceover] My parents decided to enroll me in Princess Celestia's School for Gifted Unicorns. It was a dream come true! Except for one thing... I had to pass an entrance exam!
Examiner 1: Well, Miss Sparkle?
Young Twilight Sparkle: [nervous laughter]

Examiner 1: Well, Miss Sparkle?
Examiner 2: [cough]
Young Twilight Sparkle: [groaning]
Examiner 3: [yawn]
Examiner 1: We don't have all day.
Twilight Sparkle: [voiceover] I knew it was the most important day of my life, that my entire future would be affected by the outcome of this day and I was about to blow it!
Young Twilight Sparkle: I'm sorry I wasted your time.
[explosion]
Young Twilight Sparkle: Aah!
[magic surging]
Princess Celestia: Twilight Sparkle.
Young Twilight Sparkle: Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean...
Princess Celestia: You have a very special gift. I don't think I've ever come across a unicorn with your raw abilities.
Young Twilight Sparkle: Huh?
Princess Celestia: But you need to learn to tame these abilities through focused study.
Young Twilight Sparkle: Huh?!
Princess Celestia: Twilight Sparkle, I'd like to make you my own personal protégé here at the school.
Young Twilight Sparkle: HUH?!
Princess Celestia: Well?
Young Twilight Sparkle: YES!!!
Princess Celestia: One other thing, Twilight.
Young Twilight Sparkle: More? My cutie mark! Yesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyes...

Twilight Sparkle: ...yesyesyesyes...
Apple Bloom: Okay, okay.
Sweetie Belle: We're happy for you, Twilight.
Scootaloo: Yeah, thrilled. Let's get out of here while we still can.
Twilight Sparkle: ...yesyes, YEEEES!
Cherry Fizzy: Are you okay?
Twilight Sparkle: [giggle] Um... yes.

Scootaloo: Ugh! Why don't we ever smash into Rainbow Dash?!
Pinkie Pie: You're looking for Rainbow Dash? If I was her, I'd be at Sugarcube Corner. Of course, if I was anyone, I'd be at Sugarcube Corner. Hey! I have an idea! Wanna go to Sugarcube Corner?
Sweetie Belle: Well, we're sort of looking for Rainbow Dash, so we can hear how she got her cutie mark.
Pinkie Pie: Cutie mark? Come with me and I'll tell you how I got mine!
Scootaloo: [sigh] Why not?
Pinkie Pie: Alright!

Pinkie Pie: [voiceover] My sisters and I were raised on a rock farm outside of Ponyville. We spent our days working the fields. There was no talking. There was no smiling. [sigh] There were only rocks. We were in the south field, preparing to rotate the rocks to the east field when all of a sudden...
[explosion]
[wind whistling]
Pinkie Pie: [voiceover] I'd never felt joy like that before! It felt so good I just wanted to keep smiling forever! And I wanted everyone I knew to smile too, but rainbows don't come along that often. I wondered, how else could I create some smiles?
[rooster crows]
Igneous Rock: We better harvest the rocks from the south field.
Cloudy Quartz: Pinkamena Diane Pie! Is that you?
Young Pinkie Pie: Mom! I need you and dad and the sisters to come in. Quick!
[music]
Young Pinkie Pie: Surprise! You like it? It's called... a party!
[party tweeter]
Young Pinkie Pie: Oh. You don't like it. [gasp] You like it! I'm so happy!

Pinkie Pie: And that's how Equestria was made!
Scootaloo: Wha... huh?
Apple Bloom: Look! We're here!
Pinkie Pie: Maybe on the way home I can tell you the story of how I got my cutie mark. It's a gem!
Sweetie Belle: Oh, come on. She's just being Pinkie Pie.
Scootaloo: Ugh...

Scootaloo: Rainbow Dash! You're here!
Rainbow Dash: I hear you're looking for my cutie mark story.
Scootaloo: [sigh] You have no idea what I've been through today to hear that story.
Rainbow Dash: It all happened during the race at Flight Camp...

Rainbow Dash: [voiceover] ...where I stood alone against all odds to defend Fluttershy's honor.
Young Fluttershy: [yelps]
Rainbow Dash: [voiceover] I've never flown like THAT before! That freedom was unlike anything I've ever felt! The speed, the adrenaline, the wind in my mane... I liked it... a lot!
Young Rainbow Dash: Ow!
Young Hoops: Ha! Later, Rainbow Crash!
Young Rainbow Dash: Hey!
Rainbow Dash: [voiceover] Turns out the only thing I liked more than flying fast... was winning!
[explosion]
Rainbow Dash: [voiceover] Most people thought that the Sonic Rainboom was just an old mare's tail. But that day... The day I discovered racing... I proved that the legends were true. I made the impossible happen!
[Pegasi cheering]

Rainbow Dash: And that, little ones, is how you earn a cutie mark.
Cutie Mark Crusaders: Whooooaaaa...
Fluttershy: Wait a second. I heard that explosion. And I saw the rainbow too. Rainbow Dash, if you hadn't scared the animals, I never would have learned I could communicate with them and gotten my cutie mark.
Pinkie Pie: I heard that boom! And right afterwards, there was this amazing rainbow that taught me to smile.
Applejack: When I got my cutie mark, I saw a rainbow that pointed me home. I bet it was your sonic rainboom!
Rarity: There was an explosion I could never explain when I got my cutie mark.
Twilight Sparkle: This is uncanny! If that explosion didn't happen when it did, I would have blown my entrance exam. Rainbow Dash, I think you helped me earn my cutie mark too!
Rainbow Dash: Whoa!
Pinkie Pie: We all owe our cutie marks to you!
Fluttershy: Do you realize what this means? All of us had a special connection before we even met.
Rarity: We've been BFFs forever and we didn't even know it!
Applejack: Come here, y'all.
Main 6: AWWW!!!
Fluttershy: I'm so glad we're friends!
Pinkie Pie: I love you, guys!
Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle: Awwww...
Scootaloo: Ewwww... Gimme a break. Come on, Crusaders! Maybe we just need to try zip-lining again. [sigh]
Fluttershy: Hey. How about a song?
[cries of approval]
[Pinkie Pie: Definitely!]
Scootaloo: NO!!!!!

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned something amazing. Everypony everywhere has a special magical connection with her friends, maybe even before she's met them. If you're feeling lonely and you're still searching for your true friends, just look up in the sky. Who knows? Maybe you and your future best friends are all looking at the same rainbow.
Spike: Gross! When did you get so cheesy?
Twilight Sparkle: Just write it, Spike.

[music]
[credits]

Twilight Sparkle: This meteor shower tonight's gonna be amazing!
Spike: Awesome!
Twilight Sparkle: You know, this shower only happens once every 100 years.
Spike: A centennial celebration!
Twilight Sparkle: We better get a move on!
Spike: Don't wanna be late! Whoa, whoa, whoa! [sigh] There.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, did you grab my quill and ink?
Spike: Check!
Twilight Sparkle: Scrolls?
Spike: Check! I've also packed a telescope, apples, bananas, fruit punch, and my freshly baked homemade triple-decker nut-crazy vanilla cream cookies!
Twilight Sparkle: [giggle] I can see that. Once again you've read my mind, Spike. And that is why you are my number one assistant.
Spike: I'm sorry. I didn't hear you.
Twilight Sparkle: That is why you are my number one assistant.
Spike: Missed that! Huh...?
Twilight Sparkle: I said... [giggle] Come on, let's get going. Wait! I almost forgot! I wanna bring the "Astronomical Astronomer's Almanac to All Things Astronomy".
Spike: The Astronomo-lomo homono what?
Twilight Sparkle: You know that really old big blue book on stars, moons, planets, the universe...?
Spike: Right. Check! Ah... Ahh... Ahhh... Ahhhh...! [sigh] [huge sneeze]
Twilight Sparkle: Hey! What's taking my number one assistant so long?
[ominous music]

[theme song]

Twilight Sparkle: I was sure I put the astronomer's guide back. The book would have helped me identify different planets and stars tonight.
Spike: Well... Maybe someone borrowed it? Besides, you don't need that book. You can already name all the planets and stars, 'cause you're super smart and astronomically awesome!
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks, Spike. You're such a flatterer.
Spike: Yeah, I'm a sweet talker.
Twilight Sparkle: And a number one assistant, right?
Spike: Check!
Rainbow Dash: [munch] [gulp] Wow, Twilight! You're lucky to have such a rad assistant. I wish I had someone to do whatever I told them.
Scootaloo: Ooh! Ooh! Me! Me! Me! I'll do whatever you want, Rainbow Dash!
Rainbow Dash: Oh yeah, pipsqueak? How about taking out the trash?
Scootaloo: Yes ma'am!
Rarity: Do we have Spike to thank again for this amazing spread? Isn't he simply amazing?
Spike: Oh, come on. [pause] I said come on.
Pinkie Pie: Little Spikey-wikey! Who knew that big ferocious dragon started off so cutesy wootsy?
Rarity: Spike, you are such a little star that I had to make a little bow tie for you.
Spike: Gosh. You guys are embarrassing me. Stop it. [pause] Twilight, your turn.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, that's enough.
Spike: Oh, right. That's enough.
Sweetie Belle: Hey, everypony! The show is starting!
[Everybody: Wow, that was amazing!/It's really cool./Once!]
Twilight Sparkle and Spike: Wow...
Spike: [yawn] Huh?

Pinkie Pie: Mmm. Wow! These cookies are delish!
Twilight Sparkle: Spike made them. Speaking of, Spike, can you bring us some punch? Spike?
Spike: [snoring]
Rarity: Oh, poor little thing.
Twilight Sparkle: Aww... He's worked himself to the bone.
Pinkie Pie: And now the punch has been... "spiked"!
[ponies laughing]

Spike: [snoring]
Twilight Sparkle: Goodnight, Spike. [giggle] Sweet dreams, number one assistant.
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] "The Study of Comets. Comets are small, irregularly shaped bodies that are made of non-volatile grains and frozen gasses. They..."
[creaking]
Twilight Sparkle: Huh.
Twilight Sparkle: "...have body structures that are fragile and diverse..."
[creaking]
[wind whistling]
Twilight Sparkle: Shoot! Oh... This is a job for Spike. If only he were awake...
Owlowiscious: Hoo!
Twilight Sparkle: Wait! Don't go! Don't be afraid. Thank you for returning my scroll.
Owlowiscious: Hoo! Hoo! Hoo-hoo.
Twilight Sparkle: Gosh, it's cold tonight. Say, would you like to relax in here and keep me company while I work?
Owlowiscious: Hoo! Hoo!
Twilight Sparkle: Now, where was I? Oh, yes. "...fragile and diverse with a surrounding cloud of material called a coma, that grows in size and brightness as the comet approaches the sun..."

Spike: [snoring] Huh? Waah! I overslept! I know it's already ten, but I'm scaly-tailed and bright-eyed and ready to work twice as fast! Oh please, don't be upset, Twilight! And what do you want for breakfast? Oatmeal? How about a sunflower smoothie? Grass pancakes?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, don't worry.
Spike: But my morning chores...
Twilight Sparkle: It's okay. Owlowiscious did them for you.
Spike: Who?
Twilight Sparkle: He's our new junior assistant. He's gonna help out with your chores so you won't be so tired all the time.
Spike: Wha... Wh... What do we need a junior assistant for? I'm not tired. I do fine on my own. I don't need sleep, I...
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, don't worry. He's just here to help out a little. Now, I have to go out, so why don't you introduce yourself to Owlowiscious? He's in the library.
Spike: Worried? Do I look worried? I'm not worried. Who's worried?
Spike: Hello? Hellooo! Whoa! Dude, that's creepy. Uh... Hi there! I'm Spike. I'm sure Twilight has told you all about me.
Owlowiscious: Hoo.
Spike: Uh, Spike? You know, assistant number one?
Owlowiscious: Hoo?
Spike: I'm Spike! And who are you? What are you?
Owlowiscious: Hoo!
Spike: Who?
Owlowiscious: Hoo!
Spike: I thought your name was Owlowiscious!
Owlowiscious: Hoo?
Spike: Okay, "Who", "Owlowiscious", whatever. I'm Spike, okay? Look! All you need to know is that I'm number one and you're number two. Got it?
Owlowiscious: Hoo?
Spike: So, a man of mystery, huh? I'm keeping my eye on you! I've got eyes in the back of my head too, you know? [crash] Well, not really, but... You know what I mean!
[door slams]
Spike: That bird is out for my job. He wants to be number one. I'll prove to Twilight that I deserve to be number one. Not Freaky Feathers over there. I won't let him have my job if it's the last thing I do!

Pinkie Pie: Oh, what a fantastical, flufflicious feathery little friend! I'm... HOOked!
[everybody laughs]
Fluttershy: He's just wonderful.
Spike: [mocking] "He's just wonderful." Uh, yes. Wonderful. He's quite... the charmer.
Rarity: And Owlowiscious is just such a star I just had to make this little bow for you.
Spike: Grrr!
Applejack: What's he all saddle sore about?
Rainbow Dash: He's probably just jealous of Owlowiscious.
Fluttershy: Maybe Spike feels threatened or worried that Owlowiscious will replace him?
Twilight Sparkle: Replace him? Hah! That's crazy! Spike knows he can't be replaced.

Spike: They're trying to replace me! I better step it up and make sure that Twilight and Owlowiscious know that I'm still number one!
Twilight Sparkle: Hey, Spike! Can you fetch me that book called "Two-headed Myth...
Spike: ...Mythological Mysteries!" I know where it is.
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks, Owlowiscious. Hey, Spike, no worries. Owlowiscious flew up and got the book for me. Oh, and gee! I guess I need "Ferrets of Fairyland" too.
Spike: Hey! Whoa! Whoa!
Twilight Sparkle: Climb down from there before you fall.
[crash]
Spike: Grrr!

[snap]
Twilight Sparkle: Shoot!
Spike: Yes, sir!
Twilight Sparkle: My last writing quill. It's broken.
Spike: Never fear! Spike, your number one assistant, is here! [under his breath] Quill... Quill... Where is it? Not here... Quill... Quill, where is it...?
Owlowiscious: Hoo.
Spike: Where am I gonna get a quill?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike, wait! Wait!

Spike: But the store is called "Quills and Sofas". You only sell two things!
Davenport: Sorry, Junior. All outta quills until Monday. Need a sofa?
Spike: [groan]

Pinkie Pie: I swore I had one here somewhere. Ah, here it is! A quince!
Spike: Not a quince. A quill!
Pinkie Pie: Right. A quail? A quilt! A quesadilla? Aha! A quiche! [pronounced phonetically]
Spike: Not a quiche. [pronounced correctly] A quill!
Pinkie Pie: Nope. Sorry. All outta quills.
Spike: [sigh] Shoot.

Spike: Come on, chicken! Here, chicky-chicky-chicky! Here, chick-chick-chick-chicky! Come here! Ugh! Come here! [grunting] Not the face, not the face! No! Hey! Stop! Quit it!

Spike: [panting] Spike... to the rescue.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Spike. I was calling out for you when you were turning this place upside down. Owlowiscious gave me one of his feathers to use as a quill.
Spike: That's just great. Perfect! Sweet! I think I'll just, uh... finish up the rest of my chores! Or did Owlowiscious already do them?
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, no no. There are quite a lot of them.
Spike: Well, that's fine. Because I can just stay up all night and finish– [snoring]
Twilight Sparkle: Poor Spike. He'll come around. He's genuinely a good little guy.

Spike: Huh?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike. What is this? You said this book was missing. Well, Owlowiscious found it right where it belongs, but like this. How did it get this way?
Spike: Uh... Well, um... You see, I... I just didn't wanna disappoint you and, uh... Have you ever seen a dragon sneeze?
Twilight Sparkle: I've seen a dragon lie. I'm very disappointed in you, Spike.
Spike: [to Owlowiscious] You set me up! Well, two can play that game.
Owlowiscious: Hoo!
Spike: Not "who"! Two! Urgh!

Spike: Owlowiscious is out to take my place, I just know it! I've gotta stop him. But how?
[mouse squeaking]
Spike: Ah... Muahahaha!

Rarity: Come along, Opal. Let's hurry up and get to Fluttershy's tea party.
Spike: So lifelike. And when Twilight discovers it shredded up on her floor, she'll think mouse-eating Owlowiscious is to blame. And I'll be number one... again! Muhahaha!

Spike: [evil laugh]
Spike: That poor little field mouse! Torn to pieces! It must have been Owlowiscious! You know, since owls eat, you know, mice. What a terrible, terrible bird! He must be punished! Right?
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! I don't know what upsets me more. That you deliberately tried to set up Owlowiscious or that you actually thought this pathetic attempt would work! You've let your jealousy get the best of you, Spike. I am truly disappointed. This is NOT the Spike I know and love.
Spike: She... She doesn't love me anymore.

Spike: Twilight hates me. I'm cold, hungry, tired and lonely. Could it get any worse?
[thunder]
[rain falls]
Spike: I guess that's a yes.
Spike: Hello? Hello?
[thunder]
Spike: What is that?
Spike: If this is what running away is all about, I never wanna go home! Gems! Mmm... Woohoo!

Spike: [hiccup] Even if my tummy's full, the rest of me is still empty. I miss Twilight and the pony gang. But she doesn't love me anymore. So, I'm better off here, all by myself. Wow. Seems to be getting warmer. The steam is great for my complexion, but it's sure getting hot in here.
Green dragon: What are you doing in my cave? And why are you eating my gems?
Spike: Heyah bro! I didn't know this was your cave. And I didn't know these were your gems, but... we're cool, right?
Green dragon: [growl]
Spike: Whoa, whoa! Hey... We're like brothers, you know? I mean, you're a dragon, I'm a dragon... It's us against the world, right?
Green dragon: [roar]
Spike: You don't scare me! So you're big.
Green dragon: [growl]
Spike: Really big. And your claws are super sharp. Tail... extra spiky. But, uh... You don't scare me! Ha! How'd you like that? Uh... I'd love to stay, but gotta go! See ya! Wouldn't wanna be ya! Aah!
Owlowiscious: Hoo-hoo!
Green dragon: [roar] [wail]
Twilight Sparkle: Spike! Over here!
Spike: Am I glad to see you!
Twilight Sparkle: Hurry! Hop on! It's too dark! I can't see!
Owlowiscious: Hoo! Hoo-hoo!
Green dragon: [roar]
Spike: [sigh]

Twilight Sparkle: [pants] Spike. We were so worried about you. I was so worried about you. Why did you run away?
Spike: I thought you didn't need me anymore. And that you didn't love me anymore.
Twilight Sparkle: Spike. Sure, I was disappointed, but you are my number one assistant! And friend. And you always will be. It's just that sometimes I need some help at night. I can't ask you to stay up late. You're a baby dragon and you need your rest. Owls are nocturnal. So I asked Owlowiscious to help. But not to take your place. No one could ever replace you, Spike. Not even when you are being a jealous numbskull.
Spike: I'm sorry, Twilight. I've never should have been so jealous.
Twilight Sparkle: And I'm sorry too, Spike. I should have been more sensitive.
Spike: And Owlowiscious... I know now that you weren't out to take my job. Forgive me?
Owlowiscious: Hoo?
Spike: Me. Forgive me, Spike.
Owlowiscious: Hoo!
Twilight Sparkle: [giggle] He forgives you, Spike.
Spike: Hey! How did you guys know where I was?
Twilight Sparkle: It was your ketchup-covered feet. Owlowiscious discovered your footprints and we followed them all the way to the cave.
Spike: Oh yeah, the ketchup. It looked pretty real though, didn't it? Uh... [nervous giggle]

Twilight Sparkle: I know Princess Celestia will wanna read about what happened today...
Spike: I'm ready when you are.
Twilight Sparkle: Hey, Spike. Why don't you write to Princess Celestia? And tell her what you've learned?
Spike: Really? Why, that's a big responsibility!
Twilight Sparkle: I know. But nothing my number one assistant can't handle.
Spike: Dear Princess Celestia,
This is Spike, writing to you about my adventures. This week I've learned that being jealous and telling lies gets you nowhere in friendship. I also learned that there's plenty of love for every friend to share. So from here on out, I promise, that I, Spike, will... [drops asleep]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, Spike.
Owlowiscious: Hoo?
Twilight Sparkle: Who? Spike! You kno... Ohhhh... [giggle]

[music]
[credits]

[knock knock knock knock]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh! Hi, Pinkie Pie...

[Pinkie Pie]
This is your singing telegram
I hope it finds you well
You're invited to a party
'Cause we think you're really swell


Gummy's turning one year old
So help us celebrate
The cake will be delicious
The festivities first-rate


There will be games and dancing
Bob for apples, cut a rug [pop]
And when the party's over
We'll gather 'round for a group hug


[Slowing down]
No need to bring a gift
Being there will be enough
Birthdays mean having fun with friends
Not getting lots of stuff


[Breathing heavily]
It won't be the same without you
So we hope that you say yes
So, please, oh please R.S.V.P.
And come, and be our guest!

Pinkie Pie: [rasping voice] Next time, I think I'll just pass out written invitations.

[theme song]

[music]
Rainbow Dash: Nice one! Now, let me show you how it's really done.
Pinkie Pie: Hey, girls!
Rainbow Dash: Hey, Pinkie Pie!
Applejack: Howdy!
Pinkie Pie: [squeal] Just wanted to tell you how happy I am that you could make it to Gummy's party.
Applejack: Are you kiddin'? I wouldn't have missed it for the world.
Rainbow Dash: Me neither. When Pinkie Pie throws a party, I am there! Ta-da!
Pinkie Pie: Aw! It's just a boring old apple. Don't worry, there are plenty of other surprises in there.
Rainbow Dash: [spits] What kind of surprises?
Pinkie Pie: I can't tell you that, silly. Then it wouldn't be a surprise.
Applejack: [laughs]

Rarity: This punch is simply divine. Is this the same recipe you used for your "Spring Has Sprung" party?
Pinkie Pie: Nope! Something new.
Rarity: [spits]
Pinkie Pie: It's Gummy's favorite.
Rarity: [gulp]
Pinkie Pie: Ooh, this is my jam!
Rarity: [spits]

Pinkie Pie: Having fun?
Twilight Sparkle: A blast!
Fluttershy: You always throw the best parties, Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie: They're always the best parties 'cause my best friends are always there!
Twilight Sparkle: Yah!
Fluttershy: [yelp]
Pinkie Pie: C'mon, everypony! Gummy wants to dance! Go, Gummy! It's your birthday! Go, Gummy! It's your birthday!

Applejack: Hoo-wee! I am beat! I haven't danced that much since... Well, since your last party. Thanks again for the invite!
Rainbow Dash: See ya later, birthday alligator!
Rarity: Bravo for hosting yet another delightful soiree.
Fluttershy: It's been lovely.
Pinkie Pie: You sure you don't wanna stay? There's still some cake left.
Twilight Sparkle: Uh, I think I'm gonna pass. Great party though. We should do this again soon.
Pinkie Pie: [gasp] We should do this again soon!

[knock knock knock knock]
Twilight Sparkle: Oh! Hi, Pinki-
Pinkie Pie: It's soon!
Twilight Sparkle: Pardon me?
Pinkie Pie: You said we should have another party soon, and... it's soon! Here's your invitation!
Twilight Sparkle: "You're invited to Gummy's 'after-birthday' party. This afternoon at 3 o'clock."
Pinkie Pie: All our bestest friends are invited, and there's gonna be dancing, and games, and cake, and ice-cream, and punch!
Twilight Sparkle: This afternoon? As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
Pinkie Pie: Yes, indeedy!
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, gosh. I wish I could make it, but I've gotten a bit behind in my studies. I've really gotta hit the books.
Pinkie Pie: I understand. Your studies come first. But don't worry, we'll be sure to save you some cake.
Twilight Sparkle: Please do.
Pinkie Pie: Oh! And Twilight, you shouldn't hit the books. You should really just read them.
Twilight Sparkle: I'll keep that in mind.

Applejack: Huh? Oh, hi, Pinkie Pie! What brings you 'round these parts?
Pinkie Pie: Who's ready to shake their hoof-thang?! It's an invitation to Gummy's "after-birthday" party this afternoon. There's gonna be dancing, and games, and cake, and ice-cream, and punch!
Applejack: This afternoon? A-as in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
Pinkie Pie: That's funny. That's just what Twilight said, and the answer is, "Yes! It's this afternoon!"
Applejack: Uh, well, I... I... uh... I don't think I can make it 'cause... uh... I have to... uh... uh, you know what? I... uh... pick apples! Yep, apples! 'Cause that's what we do! With the... apples. We, uh... pick 'em! [gulp]
Pinkie Pie: Okey-dokey-lokey! A party is still a party, even if there are only three guests.
Applejack: [sigh]

Spike: [grunts] Anything else I can do for you, most beautiful one?
Rarity: [sniff] [whimper] Hmm... perhaps you could take a bath. How do I put this delicately? You smell like a rotten apple core that's been wrapped in moldy hay and dipped in dragon perspiration.
Spike: [sigh]
Rarity: Ooh! Love the new hat. Very modern. What's the occasion?
Pinkie Pie: Gummy's "after-birthday" party is this afternoon. I'm delivering the invitations.
Rarity: The party is this afternoon? As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
Pinkie Pie: It's so strange. Everypony keeps saying that.
Rarity: Oh... do they?
Pinkie Pie: I know it's short notice, but we had such a great time at his birthday party, I thought we could have even more fun at his after-birthday party.
Rarity: And I'm sure that we would, but I'm going to have to decline. I have to... wash my hair!
Pinkie Pie: Don't be silly, your hair doesn't look dirty.
Rarity: It doesn't?
Pinkie Pie: Nope!
Rarity: See? [gag] Dirty! I have to go!
Pinkie Pie: Huh... No Twilight, no Applejack, no Rarity. Oh well, a party is still a party even with only two guests.

Rainbow Dash: This afternoon?
Fluttershy: As in...?
Pinkie Pie: Yes! As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon!
Rainbow Dash: Oh, man! We'd love to, but... we're... house-sitting this afternoon.
Pinkie Pie: [sigh] Both of you?
Fluttershy: It's... uh... a big house.
Rainbow Dash: Uh, look at the time! We'd really better get going.
Pinkie Pie: Wait! Maybe I could bring you some after-birthday cake and ice-cream. Who're you house-sitting for?
Rainbow Dash: Harry.
Pinkie Pie: Harry?
Rainbow Dash: Yeah, I don't think you know him.
Pinkie Pie: That's strange. I know just about everypony around here.
Fluttershy: He's... a bear.
Pinkie Pie: A bear?
Rainbow Dash: Yup! He's a bear all right, and he'll be pretty upset if we don't get over to his house soon.
Pinkie Pie: Wait! There's a bear around here who lives in a house?
Fluttershy: It's, uh, really more of a cave.
Rainbow Dash: But he's fixed up the place so much, it feels like a house.
Fluttershy: And, uh, he wants us to look after his house... uh, cave... while he's, uh...
Rainbow Dash: A-at the beach!
Pinkie Pie: He's vacationing at the beach?
Rainbow Dash: Yup! He loves to...
Fluttershy: [over Rainbow Dash] Collect sea shells! ...Play beach volleyball! ...Collect volleyballs!
Rainbow Dash: [over Fluttershy] Play beach volleyball! ...Collect sea shells! ...Play sea shells!
Rainbow Dash: Gotta go!

Pinkie Pie: Something strange is definitely going on around here, Gummy. Sure Rainbow Dash and Fluttershy had to house-sit for that vacationing bear, but what are the chances all my other friends would have plans this afternoon too? Rarity has to wash her hair? Applejack has to pick apples? Twilight is behind on her studies and has to hit the books? The more I think about it, the more those are starting to sound like... [gasp] excuses!
[door closes]
Pinkie Pie: That doesn't look like studying... or hitting!

[ding!]
Mrs. Cake: Ooh! You must be here for...
Twilight Sparkle: Shh! Is Pinkie Pie around?
Mrs. Cake: Oh, I don't think so.
Twilight Sparkle: Good. I don't wanna her to know anything about this.
Mrs. Cake: Yes, of course. I'll be right back.
Pinkie Pie: But... we're friends. What wouldn't Twilight want me to know anything about? [gasp] She's coming back.
Mrs. Cake: There you go.
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks, and remember, not a word to Pinkie Pie. Hey! What's with the tin can? [yelp]

Pinkie Pie: Time to get to the bottom of things! [gasp] I think our cover's been blown! We'll need a new disguise.
[doorbell rings]
Rarity: She didn't see you at the sweet shop, did she?
Twilight Sparkle: I don't think so.
Rarity: Oh, good. I'd hate for her to ruin everything.
Twilight Sparkle: Me too.
Gummy: [sneeze]
Rarity: Have you seen her?
Fluttershy: Not since this morning.
Rarity: Me neither. Can you believe she was planning on throwing an after-birthday party today?
Fluttershy: I'm just glad I was able to come up with an excuse for why I couldn't be there.
Rarity: Me too! This is obviously going to be so much better.
Fluttershy: As long as we keep her from finding out about it, it will.
Rarity: [whispering] See you later!
Fluttershy: [gasp] [scream]
Pinkie Pie: I thought everypony loved my parties.
Rainbow Dash: Hi, Pinkie Pie! Uh-oh!
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash! Wait!
Rainbow Dash: Phew...
Pinkie Pie: Where're you going?!
Rainbow Dash: Ah!
[shriek]
Pinkie Pie: What's the real reason you didn't want to come to Gummy's party?!
Rainbow Dash: [grunt]
Pinkie Pie: What's in those bags?!
Rainbow Dash: Applejack! We have a problem!
Applejack: [gasp]
[bonk bonk bonk bonk bonk bonk]
Pinkie Pie: I know you're IN THERE!
Applejack: Oh! Howdy, pardner!
Pinkie Pie: Mind if I... take a look inside the barn?
Applejack: No! Uh, I mean, yes, I mean... you can't come in here!
Pinkie Pie: Rainbow Dash just went in there.
Applejack: Oh, well, she was just bringin' in some... supplies! Yup, supplies for the... renovation! Fixin' up the whole thing, top to bottom... uh, lots of construction goin' on in there right now.
Rainbow Dash: [whispering] You heard her! Construction!
[ponies mimicking noises of various construction tools]
Applejack: Yup! Construction! That's my story, and I'm stickin' to it. [nervous laugh] [gulp]
Pinkie Pie: Okey... dokey... lokey.
Applejack: [relieved sigh]
[rest of ponies sigh in relief]

Pinkie Pie: Secrets and lies! It's all secrets and lies with those ponies! They're up to something, Gummy! Something they don't want me to know about! Well, I'm gonna know about it! I'm gonna know about it big time! And I know just who's gonna tell me all about it. Tell me all about it BIG TIME!

Spike: Wow! Nice spread!
Pinkie Pie: It's all yours, Spike. All you have to do is talk.
Spike: That's it? Oh, you got it. Okay... uh, beautiful weather we're having, eh? I love a sunny spring day, don't you? The birds chirpin' and the flowers bloomin'.
Pinkie Pie: No, no, no. Talk about our friends.
Spike: Oh, okay. Let's see, there's Twilight Sparkle. She's a unicorn. Good with magic. A real brainiac. And then you got Rarity. Total knock-out. Twilight seems to think I don't even have a chance with her, but... eh, what does she know? Let's see. There's... there's Fluttershy, a Pegasus who's afraid of heights. Heh, what's up with that?
Pinkie Pie: Grr! No! You're not understanding me! I want you to confess!
Spike: Confess?
Pinkie Pie: Confess!
Spike: I'm the one who spilled juice all over Twilight's copy of "Magical Mysteries and Practical Potions"!
Pinkie Pie: And?
Spike: And I'm the one who used up all the hot water in Ponyville yesterday when I took a seven-hour bubble bath!
Pinkie Pie: Aaand?
Spike: And sometimes... when no one's around... I do this: Lookin' good, Spike! Lookin' real good!
Pinkie Pie: No! No! No! NO!
Spike: W-What do you wanna hear? Tell me what you want me to say, and I'll say it!
Pinkie Pie: Tell me that my friends are all lying to me and avoiding me because they don't like my parties and they DON'T WANT TO BE MY FRIENDS ANYMORE! [panting]
Spike: Your friends are all lying to you and avoiding you 'cause they don't like your parties and they don't want to be your friends anymore!
Pinkie Pie: Ah-ha! I knew it! [balloon deflating noise] Oh no, my friends don't like my parties and they don't want to be my friends anymore.
Spike: Uh... so... [loud eating noises]
Pinkie Pie: [sigh]

Pinkie Pie: Thank you all so much for coming! It means so much to Gummy.
Pinkie Pie voicing a bucket of turnips: Could I have some more punch?
Pinkie Pie: Well, of course you can have some more punch, Mr. Turnip. [twang]
Pinkie Pie voicing a pile of rocks: This is one great pahty! You really outdone yourself!
Pinkie Pie: Why, thank you, Rocky.
Pinkie Pie voicing a clump of lint: I'm having a delightful time as well.
Pinkie Pie: I'm so glad, Sir Lintsalot. [ding]
Pinkie Pie voicing a bag of flour: Might I trouble you for anozer slice of cake?
Pinkie Pie: Anything for you, Madame le Flour.
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: I'm just glad none o' them ponies showed up.
Pinkie Pie: Oh, they're not so bad.
[low string instrument whine]
Rocky: Not so bad? Puh-lease! They're a buncha losers!
Pinkie Pie: Oh, c'mon now. "Losers" might be a little strong, dont'cha think?
Sir Lintsalot: After the way they treated you? I say "losers" isn't strong enough.
Pinkie Pie: Well, it was pretty rude...
Madame le Flour: Pretty rude? It was downright deespicable!
Pinkie Pie: It was, wasn't it?
Mr. Turnip: If I were you, I wouldn't speak to them ever again.
Pinkie Pie: You know what? I'm not gonna speak to them ever again. And I'm not gonna invite them to another party as long as I live! They don't deserve to be invited to my parties. [plink] Not after the way they've been acting.
Madame le Flour: [clapping] Deeespicable!
Sir Lintsalot: Such losers!
Madame le Flour: Yes, zat's right.
Pinkie Pie [as Mr. Turnip]: Well done.
Pinkie Pie [as Sir Lintsalot]: Yeah!
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: You show 'em!
[knock knock knock]
Pinkie Pie: Who could that be?
Rainbow Dash: Hey there, Pinkie Pie! Sorry I was in such a rush earlier. Had some place to be and couldn't slow down and say, "Hello." You know how it goes.
Pinkie Pie: I know how it goes, all right!
Rainbow Dash: Yeah... so, why don't you come with me over to Sweet Apple Acres?
Pinkie Pie: No thanks. I'm spending time with my real friends. Isn't that right, Madame le Flour?
Pinkie Pie [as Madame le Flour]: Oui! Zat iz correct, madame.
Rainbow Dash: Uh... Pinkie Pie?
Pinkie Pie: Another slice of cake, Sir Lintsalot?
Pinkie Pie [as Sir Lintsalot]: I'd love one.
Rainbow Dash: Aaallrighty. What do you say we get on out of Creepytown and head over to Applejack's...
Pinkie Pie [as Mr. Turnip]: She's not going anywhere.
Pinkie Pie: I most certainly am not. I'm having a wonderful time right here.
Rainbow Dash: You should really just come with me.
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: You heard the lady! She ain't goin' nowheres, chump!
Rainbow Dash: Who you calling a chump, chump?! Ugh... That's it. Party's over. Come on, Pinkie Pie!
Pinkie Pie: No!
Rainbow Dash: Pinkie Pie, let's go!
Pinkie Pie: I said NO!
Rainbow Dash: You... [grunts] have to... come with... me!
Pinkie Pie: No... I... DON'T!
[crash]
Rainbow Dash: Oh, you wanna do this the hard way?! We'll do this the hard way!

Rainbow Dash: [grunting] [panting] We're... here...
Twilight Sparkle, Applejack, Rarity, and Fluttershy: [in unison] Surprise!
Fluttershy: I really thought she'd be more excited.
Pinkie Pie: Excited? EXCITED? Why would I be excited to attend my own farewell party?!
Twilight Sparkle: Farewell party?
Pinkie Pie: Yes! You don't like me anymore, so you decided to kick me out of the group and throw a great, big party to celebrate! A "Farewell to Pinkie Pie" party!
Applejack: Why in the world would you think we didn't like you anymore, sugarcube?
Pinkie Pie: Why? Why? WHY?! Because you've been lying to me and avoiding me all day, that's why!
Rainbow Dash: Uh, yeah! Because we wanted your party to be a surprise.
Rarity: We'd been planning this party for such a long time, we had to make excuses for why we couldn't attend Gummy's party so that we could get everything ready for yours.
Twilight Sparkle: If this is a farewell party, why does the cake I picked up from Sugarcube Corner say "Happy Birthday, Pinkie Pie"?
Pinkie Pie: [squeak] Because it's my birthday! Ooh, how could I have forgot my own birthday?
[ponies sigh in relief]
Pinkie Pie: And you like me so much you decided to throw me a surprise party!
Rarity: That's what we've been trying to tell you, darling.
Pinkie Pie: You girls are the best friends ever! How could I have ever doubted you?
Twilight Sparkle: It's okay, Pinkie Pie. It could have happened to any of us.
Rainbow Dash: Uh-huh! It sure would.
Fluttershy: Don't worry about it.
Rainbow Dash: I'm just glad I haven't been replaced by a bucket of turnips.
Twilight Sparkle: Huh?
Rainbow Dash: You don't wanna know.
Applejack: All right, girls! Enough of this gab. Let's party!
[music]

Twilight Sparkle: Dear Princess Celestia,
I am writing to you from the most delightful party. I'm not only having a great time with my friends, but also was given the opportunity to learn a valuable lesson about friendship. Always expect the best from your friends, and never assume the worst. Rest assured that a good friend always has your best interests at heart.

Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle

Pinkie Pie: You girls wouldn't mind if we celebrated Gummy's after-birthday party too, would you? His party was cut short, and he's pretty upset about it.
Fluttershy: Oh, definitely.
Rarity: Aww, he was upset?
Applejack: Uh-huh, sure!
Rainbow Dash: For Gummy, yeah!
Twilight Sparkle: Yeah, why not? Let's have a party for Gummy. [giggles]

[music]
[credits]

Pinkie Pie: Ahh! I... can't... believe... the Grand... Galloping... Gala... is... tonight!
Twilight Sparkle: Pinkie! Please stop shouting, I'm trying to concentrate.
Rarity: Pinkie Pie! Stop that right now. It's time to prepare for the Gala, and I refuse to let you put on your new dress when you're all sweaty.
Pinkie Pie: What's Twilight doing?
Spike: She's got an awesome magic spell she's been working on for the Gala.
Rarity: Where are the others? It's getting late.
Applejack: Hold your horses, girl. We're here.
Twilight Sparkle: Perfect! I'm ready.
Rainbow Dash: For what?
Twilight Sparkle: All right, Spike.
Pinkie Pie: An apple! Are we having pie?
Spike: Shh! Watch!
[collective: Awesome! Wow! Lovely!]
Twilight Sparkle: Thanks. But that's just the start. Fluttershy, did you bring your friends?
Fluttershy: Yes. Will they be safe, Twilight?
Twilight Sparkle: You have my word.
Twilight Sparkle: Ta-da!
[collective: Oh. Uh. Ah. That's a choice. Interesting.]
Twilight Sparkle: Neat, huh? And don't worry. They'll be mice again at midnight.
Fluttershy: Opalescence, no!
["mouse-horses" neighing]
Twilight Sparkle: Wait! Come back! Those horses were supposed to pull our carriage. How will we get to the Gala?
Rarity: What ever shall we do?
Rarity: Uh... ahem. Excuse me. Uh, would you boys mind pulling our carriage to the Gala?

Twilight Sparkle: Oh. Yeah. Right.

[theme song]

Pinkie Pie: Ooh!
Spike: Come on, you guys. Let me in!
Rainbow Dash: Sure thing, Spike.
Rarity: Heavens no! We're getting dressed.
Applejack: Dressed? Uh, beg pardon, Rarity, but, uh... we don't normally wear clothes.
Rarity: [moan] I'm sorry, Spike. Some of us do have standards.
Spike: I still can't believe we're gonna be at Canterlot tonight. Our home town, Twilight! And the best part is that we all get to hang out together all night long!
Rainbow Dash: Uh... I-I don't know, Spike.
Rarity: We'll just have to see.
Applejack: We're gonna be a mite busy.
Pinkie Pie: Busy having fun! [boing]
Spike: Oh. Okay.
Twilight Sparkle: Don't worry, Spike. We'll all get to spend some time together.
Spike: Great!

Spike: 'Cause I planned out my insider's tour of Canterlot. I've gotta show Rarity the crown jewels, and Applejack the Princess's golden apple tree. And Pinkie, we gotta go to my favorite donut shop.
[excited chatter inside carriage]
Spike: Then let's get moving! Hyah!
Caramel: Excuse me!?
Spike: Um... I...
Lucky Clover: If you weren't friends with our neighbor Rarity... Hmph.

Spike: Whoa! You all look... amazing!

Twilight Sparkle: I can't believe we're finally here. With all that we've imagined, the reality of this night is sure to make this... The Best Night Ever!

[Twilight Sparkle]
At the Gala


[Choir]
At the Gala


[Fluttershy]
At the Gala
In the garden
I'm going to see them all
All the creatures
I'll befriend them at the Gala


[Choir]
At the Gala


[Fluttershy]
All the birdies
And the critters
They will love me big and small
We'll become good friends forever
Right here at the Gala!


[Choir]
All our dreams will come true
Right here at the Gala
At the Gala


[Applejack]
At the Gala (It's amazing)
I will sell them (Better hurry)
All my appletastic treats (Yummy yummy)
Hungry ponies (They'll be snacking)
They will buy them (Bring your money)
Caramel apples, apple sweets (Gimme some)
And I'll earn a lot of money
for the Apple family!


[Choir]
All our dreams and our hopes from now until hereafter
All that we've been wishing for will happen at the Gala
At the Gala


[Rarity]
At the Gala
All the royals
They will meet fair Rarity
They will see I'm just as regal at the Gala


[Choir]
At the Gala


[Rarity]
I will find him
My Prince Charming
And how gallant he will be
He will treat me like a lady
Tonight at the Gala!


[Choir]
This is what we've waited for to have the best night ever
Each of us will live our dreams
Tonight at the Gala
At the Gala


[Rainbow Dash]
Been dreamin'
I've been waitin'
To fly with those great ponies
The Wonderbolts, their daring tricks
Spinning round and having kicks
Perform for crowds of thousands
They'll shower us with diamonds
The Wonderbolts will see me right here at the Gala!


[Choir]
All we've longed for
All we've dreamed
Our happy ever after
Finally will all come true
Right here at the Grand Gala
At the Gala


[Pinkie Pie]
I am here at the Grand Gala
For it is the best party
But the one thing it was missing was a pony named Pinkie
For I am the best at parties, all the ponies will agree
Ponies playing
Ponies dancing
With me at the Grand Gala!


[Choir]
Happiness and laughter at the Gala
At the Gala


[Twilight Sparkle]
At the Gala (At the Gala)
With the Princess (With the Princess)
Is where I'm going to be (She will be)
We will talk all about magic and what I've learned and seen (She will see)
It is going to be so special
As she takes time just for me (This will be the best night ever!)


[Choir]
Into the Gala we must go
We're ready now, we're all aglow
Into the Gala, let's go in and have the best night ever
Into the Gala, now's the time
We're ready and we look divine!


[Choir and Fluttershy]
Into the Gala


[Fluttershy]
Meet new friends


[Choir and Applejack]
Into the Gala


[Applejack]
Sell some apples


[Choir and Rarity]
Into the Gala


[Rarity]
Find my Prince


[Choir and Rainbow Dash]
Prove I'm great


[Rainbow Dash]
As a Wonderbolt is


Fluttershy: To meet!
Applejack: To sell!
Rarity: To find!
Rainbow Dash: To prove!
Pinkie Pie: To whoop!
Twilight Sparkle: To talk!

[All]
Into the Gala
Into the Gala
And we'll have the best night ever!
At the Gala!

Spike: Yeah! This is gonna be the best night ever. You know why? Cause we're all gonna spend time at the Gala to... gether. Or not.

Twilight Sparkle: Princess Celestia!
Princess Celestia: Twilight! It is so lovely to see my star student.
Twilight Sparkle: Oh, I'm so excited to be here! We have so much to catch up on.
Princess Celestia: Well, I want you right by my side the entire evening, so we'll have plenty of time together.
Twilight Sparkle: That's just what I was hoping you'd say.

Rarity: [gasp] [squeals of excitement] Hurry, Rarity... Oh, but not too fast. But don't wanna lose him... WAIT! Have to play it cool. Oh, but don't be cold! I can't lose him, I can't! He's everything I imagined! Even better than I imagined.

[bird chirping]
Fluttershy: Oh my! A meadowlark!
[whistling]
Fluttershy: I think she's calling to me. It's exactly what I wished for! [humming]
[whistling]

Applejack: Howdy, partner! You hungry?
Soarin: As a horse!
Applejack: Well, what'cha hankering for? Caramel apple? Apple pie? Apple fritter? Apple fries?
Soarin: I'll take that big apple pie!
Applejack: Well, thank you kindly, sir! Yee-haw! In the first minute, I made my first sale. Just like I expected.

Spitfire: Always hungry after a show. Eh, Soarin?
Soarin: Heh. Yeah! [gasp] My pie! You saved it. Thanks.
Rainbow Dash: Hey, no prob.
Spitfire: Hey! I know you. You're the pony that saved us in Cloudsdale and won The Best Flyer Competition.
Rainbow Dash: Hay yeah! Name's Rainbow Dash.
Spitfire: Well, Rainbow Dash. Looks like your skills saved us again. Oh, well, at least they saved Soarin's apple pie.
Soarin: [OMNOM] Yeah... [NOMNOMNOM...]
Spitfire: Wanna come hang out with us?
Rainbow Dash: Sure. Why not? I'm... hanging... with the... Wonderbolts! [squee, giggle]

Pinkie Pie: The shiny dance floor... The pretty party ponies... Ooh, the fancy band... Shiny! Pretty! Fancy! [anxious noise] GOTTA DANCE!

[Pinkie Pie]
I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala,
I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala,
I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala,
It's all I ever dreamed.


It's all I ever dreamed, woo hoo!
It's all I ever dreamed, yippee!
I'm at the Grand Galloping GalaaaaaaaaaaAAAAAAAAAAAA!
[pause]


It's all I've ever... dreamed?


Prince Blueblood: Well, hello. I am Prince Blueblood.
Rarity: I am... Rarity. Oh my, what a lovely rose.
Prince Blueblood: You mean... this rose? Thank you. It goes with my eyes.
Rarity: [moan]

Fluttershy: [humming]
[whistling]
Fluttershy: [gasp] My little meadowlark is right around this bend!
Mr. Greenhooves: [whistling]
Fluttershy: Was that you?
Mr. Greenhooves: Yep! I love whistlin' while I work. [whistles]
Fluttershy: Oh! Yes... Well... Excuse me.
[animal noises]
Fluttershy: Oh! I see a toco toucan! And a spider monkey! And, oh! Is that a wallaroo? Oh, Fluttershy. You're such a loudmouth.

[ponies chattering]
Rainbow Dash: Hey, Spitfire! You ever done a rain cloud double backflip? [to Soarin] You ever soared past lightning? It's awesome!

Princess Celestia: Welcome to the Grand Galloping Gala.
Twilight Sparkle: Princess! I've been so excited to spend time with you and...
Princess Celestia: Yes. Me too, Twi... Oh, good evening! Welcome to the Gala. Which is why I... Ladies! Lovely to see you again.
Twilight Sparkle: [sigh] Looks like getting a chance to talk to the Princess is gonna be a magic trick in itself.

Applejack: First minute, first sale. Second... Fourth... Sixth... Sixtieth minute... no sales. [sigh] This ain't what I expected at all.

Pinkie Pie: I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala... and it's not what I dreamed.

Rarity: This isn't at all what I imagined.

Princess Celestia: [in background] Good evening! So nice to see you. Welcome!
Twilight Sparkle: This isn't what I hoped.

Rainbow Dash: This isn't hanging out.

Fluttershy: This isn't what I wished for.

Twilight Sparkle: No!
Rarity: I waited all my life...
Fluttershy: ...for this moment!
Pinkie Pie: And I'm not going to...
Applejack: ...let it slip by!
Rainbow Dash: If it's the last thing I do...
Twilight Sparkle: ...I'm gonna make this...
All: ...the best night ever!

Fluttershy: I just have to be more bold, like Twilight says. [loudly] I'm so sorry to have scared you, my friends! But I'm leaving now, so you can all come out!
[sound of crunching]
Fluttershy: Gotcha! It's okay. I promise not to hurt you. I just wanna be your... friend?
Mr. Greenhooves: Mmm... Sounds good to me.

Rainbow Dash: Come on, Rainbow! If they don't notice you, you gotta make 'em notice you. [whistles]
"Caesar": [yells] [grunts]

Rarity: Just give him a chance, Rarity. His princely side is sure to come out if you're just patient.
Prince Blueblood: Miss Rarity! Stop!
Rarity: Oh. Prince Blueblood! How chivalrous.
Prince Blueblood: One would hate to slip.
Rarity: Yes. One certainly would.
Prince Blueblood: One's cloak should take care of the problem.
Rarity: Oh, of course it will.

Pinkie Pie: [gasp] [whispering]
Pinkie Pie: C'mon, everypony! I know what will make you shake those groove-thangs!

[Pinkie Pie]
You reach your right hoof in
You reach your right hoof out
You reach your right hoof in
And you shake it all about
You do the Pony Pokey meeting lots of folks with clout
That's what I'm talking about


You step your left hoof in
You pull it right back out
You step your left hoof in
But you better help him out
You do the Pony Pokey but should find a different route
That's what it's all about


You kick your back left in
You pull your back left out
You reach your back left in
Just be brave and have no doubt
You do the Pony Pokey feeling like you're gonna pout
That's what I'm singing about


You tilt your head in
You tilt your head out
You tilt your head in
Then you shake it all about
You do the Pony Pokey even though your date's a lout
You're better off without


You stomp your whole self in
You stomp your whole self out
You stomp your whole self in
And you stomp yourself about
You do the Pony Pokey and you give a little shout-


Fluttershy: COME OUT!

[Pinkie Pie]
That's what I'm talking about


You do the Pony Pokey
You do the Pony Pokey
You do the Pony Pokey
And that's what it's all about


Yeah!

Lyrica Lilac: Young lady, this is not that kind of party.
Pinkie Pie: Ohhhhhh... They don't want a party. These ponies want a paaartay!

Rarity: Two apple fritters, please.
Applejack: Two apple fritters comin' right up. That'll be four bits.
Rarity: Ahem.
Prince Blueblood: Ahem.
Rarity: Ahem!
Prince Blueblood: AHEM!
Rarity: [sigh] I'm going to have to pay, aren't I?
Applejack: It's okay, Rarity. I got you covered.
Rarity: Thank you, Applejack. At least somepony here has good manners.
Prince Blueblood: [barf] Oh! Fritters! Dumplings! Caramel apples! My royal lips have touched common carnival fare! I'm going to the buffet for some... hors d'oeuvres.
Applejack: Well, no wonder nopony wants my food. They're fillin' up on those fancy-schmancy vittles. Well, my down-home apples are plenty good enough for this crowd. I'll just dress 'em up a bit and prove it to 'em.

Fluttershy: I'll catch you yet, my pretties. Oh yes. As soon as one of you little birds or monkeys or bears touches this net... you'll be MINE! MINE!!! [evil laugh] Whoa! 

Pinkie Pie: Come on, everypony! You wanted a partay? Now it's paaartaaay! Yeah! Uh! Now that's a beat, yeah! Uh! C'mon, dance! Yeah, woohoo!
Applejack: Okay, all you high-class ponies. Here's a highfalutin apple cake for your hoity-toity taste buds.
Pinkie Pie: STAGE DIVE!
Rarity and Prince Blueblood: [scream]
Rarity: [angry growl] You, sir, are the most uncharming prince I have ever met! In fact, the only thing royal about you is that you are a royal pain!
Prince Blueblood: Ewww...! Uh, stay back! I just had myself groomed!
Rarity: Afraid to get dirty?! [babbles]
Prince Blueblood: [whimpering]
Rainbow Dash: This is my chance! Yes! Whoa!
[crash]
Twilight Sparkle: Well... it can't get any worse.
[rumbling]
[door opens]
[animals chattering]
Fluttershy: You're... going to LOVE ME!
[ponies screaming]
Twilight Sparkle: Um, um, uh... Eugh.
Princess Celestia: Run.
Twilight Sparkle: [whistles]

Pinkie Pie: Ooh! Rarity, your glass slipper! Now your prince is sure to find you.
Rarity: [shriek] No! Ugh! Let's go!

Spike: Hey, Pony Joe. Another donut.
Joe: Don't you think you've had enough?
Spike: Another donut! Extra sprinkles!
[bell rings]
Joe: Twilight Sparkle! Ha, ha. Long time no see.
Spike: Hey, how was the Gala? How was your best night ever?

Spike: That sounds like the worst night ever!
Everypony: It was! [laughter]
Twilight Sparkle: I just hope Princess Celestia isn't upset with us for ruining the Gala.
Princess Celestia: That was the best Grand Galloping Gala ever!
Everypony: Princess Celestia?!
Twilight Sparkle: Pardon me, Princess, but tonight was just awful.
Princess Celestia: Oh, Twilight. The Grand Galloping Gala is always awful.
Twilight Sparkle: It is?
Princess Celestia: That is why I was thrilled you were all attending. I was hoping you could liven things up a bit. And while the evening may not have gone as you planned, I'm sure you'll agree that in the end it didn't turn out so bad for this group of friends.
Twilight Sparkle: You're right, Princess. Friends have a way of making even the worst of times into something pretty great.
Rainbow Dash: Yeah! Hanging out with friends!
Fluttershy: Talking!
Pinkie Pie: Laughing!
Spike: You mean doing exactly what I wanted to do the whole time?
Twilight Sparkle: Yes, Spike. You were right.
Applejack: As horrible as our night was...
Rarity: ...being together here has made it all better.
Pinkie Pie: In fact, it's made it...
All (except Celestia): ...the best night ever! [laughter]

[music]
[credits]
